PatentNumber=7634023,The disclosure in general relates to communication signal processing systems, and in particular relates to the addition of inverted interference signals to facilitate digital filtering.



Communication systems typically implement one or more digital modulation schemes. For example, many communication systems use an Orthogonal Frequency Digital Multiplexing (OFDM) modulation format. The OFDM modulation format supports multiple communication channels, and a 16-channel OFDM waveform is commonly implemented in satellite systems.



The 16-channel OFDM modulation format generates side lobe energy, as do nearly all other modulation formats. The side lobe components of the OFDM waveform are needed to maintain orthogonality. The side lobe energy of the OFDM spectrum, however, extends beyond the signal bandwidth typically allotted for a carrier waveform and may interfere with waveforms in adjacent frequency bands, causing adjacent channel interference (ACI). Thus, the side lobes are removed at the transmitter by a FIR filter to eliminate nearly all the side lobe energy and to limit the total bandwidth of the OFDM signal to a "null-to-null" bandwidth. Removal of the side lobes, however, compromises the orthogonal property of the OFDM waveform, causing inner symbol interference (ISI). This interference results in a higher noise floor (or Es/No ceiling), which, in turn, limits the system performance of each channel. The degradation appears as implementation loss, and may be particularly high when using high order modulation on the outer channels.



The digital filtering correlates the symbols in time and across channels, which results in a self-interference within the modulated waveform. A novel correlation canceller is disclosed herein that adds the inverse of this interference a priori. The inverse of the interference may be obtained based on known symbols for each channel within the transmitter. In one example embodiment, the correlation canceller modulates a processed data signal over a plurality of channels and an epoch aperture by a plurality of interference response signals corresponding to a digital filter transfer function to generate an inversely correlated communication signal.



DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system for generating a modulated and unfiltered communication signal;



FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal;



FIG. 3 is a block diagram of a system for providing a priori conditioning of a communication signal;



FIG. 4 is flow diagram illustrating a method of a priori conditioning of a communication signal;



FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a system for monitoring epoch aperture data;



FIG. 6 is a block diagram of epoch aperture data and corresponding interference response signals;



FIG. 7 is a flow diagram illustrating a method of generating a filtered communication signal modulated by interference response signals;



FIG. 8 is a block diagram of an example correlation canceller system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal;



FIGS. 9(a) and 9(b) are illustrative correlation canceller input filters for two communication channels;



FIG. 10 is a block diagram of another embodiment of a system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal; and



FIG. 11 a flow diagram illustrating a method of generating interference response signals carried out by the system of FIG. 10.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system for generating a modulated and unfiltered communication signal 20. A channel modulator 10 receives input bit streams 12 for a plurality of data channels and modulates the input bit streams 12 on each channel to produce a corresponding processed data signal comprising in-phase and quadrature components. In the example shown in FIG. 1, the channel modulator 10 modulates 16 data channels at a rate of 3.375 megasymbols per second (Msps). Other channel modulators having different specifications may also be used. The channel modulator 10 may comprise digital signal processing circuitry and/or software operable to encode the digital data into the in-phase and quadrature components. Examples of such circuitry and/or software include a field programmable gate array (FPGA), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), or a computer processor operable to execute processor-executable instructions.



A carrier modulator 14 receives the processed data signal from the channel modulator 10 and modulates the processed data signal to produce a communication signal. The communication signal may then be provided to a transmitter for transmission. In the example shown in FIG. 1, the carrier modulator 14 is an OFDM modulator that performs a 32 point complex fast Fourier transform (FFT). In this example the data is FEC encoded via turbo codes, and the output waveform is referred to as a "Turbo-encoded Orthogonal L-Band L-Code" (or a "TOLL") communication signal 20. Other carrier modulators having different specifications may also be used, such as BPSK, QPSK, M-ary PSK, or other such modulation formats, with or without FEC encoding. The carrier modulator 14 may comprise digital signal processing circuitry and/or software operable to perform such carrier modulation. Examples of such circuitry and/or software include a FPGA, an ASIC, or a computer processor operable to execute processor-executable instructions.



The communication signal 20 comprises the 16 multiple channels of the processed data signal, each of which is at a symbol rate of 3.375 Msps. The sixteen channels are multiplexed together, generating a 54 Msps band signal. Thus, the bandwidth .beta. of the communication signal 20 is 54 MHz.



In the example shown, the TOLL communication signal has a very high signal-to-noise ratio (Es/No) of 40 dB for each channel. This high Es/No value is seen in the TOLL waveform 20 prior to filtering by a digital filter and transmission, and is due in part to demodulation in the presence of the side lobes 22 appearing outside of the 54 MHz band. In a practical system, however, the bandwidth available for a communication signal is limited. For example, the waveform 20 may be one of a plurality of communication signals that are adjacently positioned along the frequency spectrum. Accordingly, because the side lobes 22 are outside of the 54 MHz band of the TOLL waveform, they may cause adjacent channel interference (ACI) in the communication signals in adjacent bands. Thus, prior to transmission, the communication signal 20 is filtered by a digital filter to suppress the side lobes 22.



FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal 24. The channel modulator 10 and the carrier modulator 14 are the same as described in FIG. 1. The system of FIG. 2, however, includes an example finite impulse response (FIR) filter 16. Other types of filters may also be used.



The FIR filter 16 eliminates the side lobes 22 of the communication signal 20 to generate the filtered communication signal 24 of FIG. 2. Because nearly all of side lobe energy outside of the 54 MHz band is eliminated, the filtered communication signal 20 generates less ACI than the communication signal 20. However, suppression of the side lobes 22 compromises the orthogonality of the communication signal 20, which in turn results in inner symbol interference (ISI). As a result, the effective Es/No of the filtered communication signal is lowered to about 18 dB at the outer channels.



In general, the Es/No ceiling is indicative of an implementation loss, and raising the Es/No ceiling mitigates the implementation loss. The amount of the implementation loss depends on the modulation and coding used. For example, if a rate 1/3 code with QPSK is used on the outer channels of the filtered communication signal 24, the implementation loss may be less then 0.1 dB and can easily be neglected. However, if an 8-ary modulation and a high rate code (such as the (128,120).sup.2 turbo product code) is used, then the implementation loss increases to approximately 0.7 dB. When other impairments are included, the difference in implementation loss when using the FIR filter 16 as compared to not using the FIR filter 16 can easily exceed 1.0 dB. Even on the inner channels, near the center frequency, the implementation loss can approach nearly 0.5 dB when the higher code rate codes and 8-ary modulation are used.



The system degradation caused by the filtering of the communication signal can be minimized by evaluating a self-interference caused by the inclusion of the filter and adding an inverse of this interference a priori. FIG. 3 is a block diagram of a system for providing a priori conditioning of a communication signal. The example channel modulator 10, carrier modulator 14, and digital filter 16 are as described with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2 above.



A correlation canceller 30 is interposed between the channel modulator 10 and the carrier modulator 14. The correlation canceller 30 includes a plurality of interference response signals corresponding to the transfer function Gz of the digital filter 16. The interference response signals define an epoch aperture over which the in-phase and quadrature data are received. The epoch aperture is typically symmetric about an on-time received symbol, e.g., the epoch aperture may define the time t=-n, -n+1 . . . n over which in-phase and quadrature data signals are received. Thus, the transfer function of the correlation canceller 30 may be characterized as G'z. The correlation canceller 30 is operable to modulate the processed data signal from the channel modulator 10 over the plurality of channels and the epoch aperture prior to digital filtering by the digital filter 16 to generate an inversely correlated data signal. In the example system shown in FIG. 3, the inversely correlated data signal is received by the carrier modulator 14, which then modulates the inversely correlated data signal to generate a communication signal. The communication signal is then filtered by the digital filter 16.



In general, FIR filtering of a communication signal correlates symbols in time and across the channels, which results in self-interference across the channels. By filtering a processed data signal with known data, such as data stream representing a test tone or a response to an impulse function, the channel responses to the self-interference caused by the FIR filter may be evaluated. The inverse of this self-interference may be characterized as interference response signals that can be added into the processed data signal a priori to minimize the effect of the self-interference caused by the correlation in the FIR filter. Accordingly, the addition of the interference response signals results is a degree of correlation cancellation relative to the self-interference.



The correlation canceller 30 may comprise digital signal processing circuitry and/or software operable to perform such carrier modulation. Examples of such circuitry and/or software include a FPGA, an ASIC, or a computer processor operable to execute processor-executable instructions.



FIG. 4 is flow diagram 100 illustrating a method of a priori conditioning of a communication signal. The process of FIG. 4 may be carried out to generate the interference response signals utilized by the correlation canceller 30 of FIG. 3. An example system implementing the process of FIG. 4 is shown in FIG. 5, which depicts a system for monitoring epoch aperture data.



Step 102 filters a plurality of channels according to a filter transfer function, and step 104 selects one of the data channels. Step 106 transmits a data signal over the selected channel. The data signal may be a known value, such as a tonal that generates a known bit pattern for the in-phase and quadrature data.



Step 108 selects an epoch aperture for monitoring. The size of the epoch aperture may be selected according to the processing capabilities available, and also according to the acceptable amount of self-interference mitigation desired or required. In one embodiment, an epoch aperture of three (i.e., n-1, n, and n+1, where n represents the on-time symbol) is selected.



Step 110 monitors the remaining plurality of channels over the epoch aperture to obtain corresponding channel response signals resulting from the transmission of the data signal over the selected channel. The channel response signals are the interference data on each remaining channel in response to the transmission of the data signal over the selected channel. As shown in FIG. 5, this step may be realized by using a demodulator 18 to demodulate the filtered communication signal output by the digital filter 16. The epoch aperture data 40 are stored in a data store, such as a memory device.



Steps 102, 104, 106, 108 and 110 are then repeated for each channel in the processed data signal. After each channel has been selected and the corresponding epoch aperture data 40 collected, a measure of the self-interference across each channel for the epoch aperture is obtained. Step 112 then inverts the channel response signals to obtain interference response signals corresponding to the plurality of channels over the epoch aperture.



In one embodiment, the in-phase and quadrature components of each channel are evaluated separately and the corresponding channel response signals comprise real data. In this embodiment, the resulting interference response signals are the negative of the channel response signals. In another embodiment, the complex channel response data may be monitored and used to generate the corresponding interference response signals.



FIG. 6 is a block diagram of epoch aperture data 40 and corresponding interference response signals 50 for a single channel corresponding to the unity value 42. The example epoch aperture data 40 defines an epoch aperture of n received channel responses over m modulated channels. An inversion operation, such as multiplying the n received channel responses by -1, may be used to generate the corresponding interference response signals 50. The unity value 42, however, is not inverted, as represented by the unity value 52 in the interference response signals 50. This is to prevent cancellation of the actual data transmitted over a channel.



FIG. 7 is a flow diagram 120 illustrating a method of generating a filtered communication signal modulated by interference response signals. The system of FIG. 3 may be used to implement the process of FIG. 7. In step 122, the correlation canceller 30 receives a processed data signal from the channel modulator 10. In step 124, the correlation canceller 30 modulates the processed data signal over the plurality of channels and the epoch aperture prior to digital filtering to generate an inversely correlated data signal. The correlation canceller 30 modulates the processed data signal by the interference response signals. In step 126, the inversely correlated data signal is modulated by the carrier modulator 14 to generate a communication signal. The communication signal is then filtered by the digital filter 16 to generate a filtered communication signal in step 128.



FIG. 8 is a block diagram of an example correlation canceller system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal 26. The channel modulator 10, carrier modulator 14, and the FIR filter 16 are the same as described in FIG. 2. The system of FIG. 8, however, includes a correlation canceller 30 interposed between the channel modulator 10 and the carrier modulator 14.



The example system of FIG. 8 is described with reference to a filtered 2-channel (channel 0 and channel 1) OFDM waveform using the FIR filter 16 with a 2-symbol aperture. Each channel carries an I and a Q value for a total of 4 variables--one I and Q per channel--received at any time n. Due to the FIR filtering by the FIR filter 16, the channel 0 in-phase term I at the receiver can be written as:



.times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..tim- es..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..- times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..time- s..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..t- imes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times- ..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..tim- es..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..- times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..time- s..times..times..times. ##EQU00001## where:



I.sub.Rec,0,n=the in-phase value received on channel 0 at time n; and



c.sub.ChX,M,.sub.ChYN . . . -.alpha.=the correlation of the N.sup.th term of channel Y at time n-.alpha. on the M.sup.th term of channel X at time n, where N and M.epsilon.(I, Q).



For channel 0, there are 20 terms for just the received in-phase term. Similarly, there are 20 terms for the quadrature term of channel zero, the in-phase term of channel 1, and the quadrature term of channel 1. In an ideal system, the first coefficient (c.sub.0I,0I,0) for each received signal is 1 and all other coefficients are zero.



The FIR filtering by the digital filter 16, however, causes interference resulting in the additional terms being non-zero. Each of these other terms is typically small relative to the first coefficient (c.sub.0I,0I,0) but the RMS sum of all 20 becomes significant.



In a system implementing a TOLL waveform, there are 16 channels and the aperture of the FIR filter 16 is approximately three symbols. Thus, for each of the in-phase and quadrature values (16 I and 16 Q) there are 7.times.32=224 terms, or 223 additional terms. Accordingly, the correlation canceller 30 calculates the sum of the 223 additional terms and subtracts this value from the modulated symbol. If calculated for each symbol, the correlation canceller 30 generates 223.times.32=7136 terms per symbol time of 3.375 Msps.



The coefficients c, however, are a function of the FIR filter 16. As a result, the coefficients c are a function of the number of channels used. For a system using a selected number of channels and a selected FIR filter 16, the coefficients c are constants. Multiply-accumulators may thus be implemented because each term in the above equation requires a multiply and these terms are added together. Thus, in the example embodiment of FIG. 8, the correlation canceller 30 has a similar characteristic of 32 FIR filters, each with 223 taps. Therefore, the total MAC operations per second of the correlation canceller is 7136.times.3.375 Msps=24 billion MAC operations per second. As a comparison, a typical FIR filter that may be used in the system of FIG. 8 may be implemented with 5 Billion MACs.



In another embodiment, the implementation requirements of the correlation canceller 30 can be reduced by minimizing the MAC operation requirements. For example, reducing the aperture size reduces the MAC operations required. The FIR filter 16 aperture results in 7 time periods per each symbol. As with most filters, however, the bulk of the signal energy is concentrated near the "on time" symbol. Thus, the three terms centered about the on-time symbol may be used to define an aperture that yields acceptable results. Therefore, for a time n, only the symbols at time n-1, n and n+1 are considered, and the remaining symbols are ignored. The total MAC operations are reduced to approximately 10.4 billion, which can be implemented in a FPGA or ASIC.



Utilization of an epoch aperture of n-1, n and n+1 in the correlation canceller 30 thus increases the minimum Es/No to approximately 31 dB at the outer channels, as shown by the filter communication signal 26 of FIG. 8. This Es/No level is sufficiently high that the implementation loss on any channel can generally be neglected.



FIGS. 9(a) and 9(b) are illustrative correlation canceller input filters 32a and 32b for two communication channels 10a and 10b. In the embodiment shown in FIGS. 9(a) and 9(b), the in-phase and quadrature values are represented together as a single complex number. For the first channel having the corresponding input filter 32a, the output is the weighted sum of the channel at time n, represented by the unity value of "1" for the interference response signal coefficient 34a, and all 16 channels at time n-1, n and n+1 as modulated by the remaining interference response signal .alpha. coefficients. Likewise, for the second channel having the corresponding input filter 32b, the output is the weighted sum of the channel at time n, represented by the unity value of "1" for the interference response signal coefficient 34b, and all 16 channels at time n-1, n and n+1 as modulated by the remaining interference response signal a coefficients.



The .alpha. values represent different complex weights and have a magnitude less than 1. The correlation canceller 30 thus operates to add in, a priori, the inverse of the correlation caused by the FIR filter 16. The result is that cross channel correlation seen at the receiver is minimized.



Because the correlation canceller 30 may be interposed between the channel modulator 10 and the carrier modulator 14, the systems and methods described herein may be readily implemented in existing communication systems. Additionally, if the FIR filter is changed or adjusted to have a different transfer characteristic, the interference response signals utilized by the correlation canceller 30 may be obtained by the analysis of the channel response data as described above with reference to FIGS. 4, 5 and 6. Finally, if the FIR filter 16 is removed from the system, or if the correlation canceller 30 is to be bypassed, all of the remaining interference response signals a may be set to 0.



FIG. 10 is a block diagram of another embodiment of a system for generating a modulated and filtered communication signal. In this embodiment, a plurality of interference response signals are generated by an epoch aperture correlator 62 and an interference response signal generator 64. The system of FIG. 10 provides for dynamic adjustment of a correlation canceller 60.



FIG. 11 a flow diagram 130 illustrating a method of generating interference response signals carried out by the system of FIG. 10. In step 132, the channel modulator generates a processed data signal. In step 134, the correlation canceller 60 modulates the processed data signal over an epoch aperture and over a plurality of data channels by a plurality of interference response signals to generate an inversely correlated data signal. In one embodiment, upon system initiation, the interference response signals are set to 0 for all channels except for the data channel, which is set to 1. Accordingly, the correlation canceller 60 initially passes the processed data signal unchanged.



In step 136, the inversely correlated data signal is modulated by the carrier modulator to generate a communication signal, and in step 138 the communication signal is filtered by the digital filter 16 to generate a filtered communication signal for transmission. The filtered communication signal may also be provided to a carrier demodulator 18, which demodulates the filtered communication signal to generate a demodulated data signal, in accordance with step 140.



In step 142, the demodulated data signal is correlated with the processed data signal by the epoch aperture correlator 62. The correlation of the processed data signal with the demodulated data signal over the epoch aperture generates a plurality of corresponding channel response data that are indicative of the self-interference cause by the digital filter 16. In one embodiment, the epoch aperture correlator 62 correlates over a given set of received symbols or over a given time period, e.g., 1,000,000 symbols, or every second.



In step 144, the interference response signals stored in the correlation canceller are updated based on the channel response data. An interference response signal generator 64 may be configured to invert the channel response signals to generate the interference response signals as described above with reference to FIGS. 3-9. In one embodiment, the interference response signal generator 64 is configured to periodically update the interference response signals used by the correlation canceller 60 based on the output frequency of the epoch aperture correlator 62, e.g., every 1,000,000 symbols, or every second.



In another embodiment, the epoch aperture correlator 62 performs an autocorrelation on the demodulated data signal over the epoch aperture, and does not correlate the demodulated data signal with the processed data signal. The autocorrelation on the demodulated data signal over the epoch aperture yields channel response data that is indicative of the self-interference caused by the digital filter 16, albeit the channel response data may be less accurate than if such data were obtained by a correlation of the processed data signal and the demodulated data signal.



The epoch aperture correlator 62 and the interference response signal generator 64 may comprise digital signal processing circuitry and/or software operable to perform the operations described herein. Examples of such circuitry and/or software include a FPGA, an ASIC, or a computer processor operable to execute processor-executable instructions.



The systems and methods described herein may be implemented in a transmitting device, such as in a satellite communication system uplink. Alternatively, the system may be distributed over a plurality of locations. For example, if a satellite downlink filter characteristic is known, a processed data signal may be conditioned as described herein prior to transmission to the satellite according to the interference response signals corresponding to the satellite downlink filter characteristics.



While the example systems and methods herein have been described with respect to applications for digital filtering and signal processing, the systems and methods described herein may also be applied to analog systems or digital systems with analog processing stages. Additionally, the system and methods described herein may also be applied to provide a priori conditioning for other linear system responses in addition to or separate from the linear system response of a filtering device. For example, a linear system response as measured from the output of the correlation canceller to the demodulated communication signal may be evaluated to generate corresponding interference response signals for use in the correlation canceller.



The embodiments described herein are examples of structures, systems or methods having elements corresponding, either literally or equivalently, to the elements of the invention recited in the claims. Additionally, the flow diagrams described herein, which describe particular methods and/or corresponding acts in support of steps, may also be utilized to implement corresponding software structures and algorithms, and equivalents thereof.

PatentNumber=7656958,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The present invention relates to wireless communication systems and specifically to channel estimation in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing system.



2. Discussion of Related Art



Digital multimedia applications are becoming more common as the increase in broadband communication systems continues. While the use of broadband wireless communication develops, a prevailing problem in most digital communication systems includes how to determine the original signal (block of symbols) transmitted when a noisy signal is received. One method, called Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), enables the transmission of symbols at high data rates over hostile channels at a relatively low complexity. The OFDM standard has been adopted in some regions, such as Europe, for radio and TV. The standard is being explored in other contexts such as fixed wireless systems. As with other digital communication protocols, OFDM signals experience the same difficulty in being interpreted at a receiver.



Various channels are presently available for digital communications. These include telephone channels, data channels, broadband channels, satellite channels and fixed wireless channels. There is non-uniformity in the characteristics and bandwidth of these channels and such non-uniformity causes inter-symbol interference that inhibits faster transmission. For example, in applications such as broadband channels and fixed wireless channels, a standard problem increasing the complexity of the system is multi-path channels caused by signals reflected off buildings or other objects between the transmitter and receiver. Multiple versions of the same signal interfere with each other and cause inter-symbol interference (ISI) with an accompanying lower bit rate. It becomes difficult to extract the original information from the channel with the presence of ISI.



In order for an OFDM system to recognize transmitted signals, the receiver and transmitter must be synchronized. This synchronization involves several tasks. First, timing synchronization involves finding the "beginning" of a received OFDM symbol. The time scales of the transmitter and receiver are synchronized and any extra symbols repeated in the block to preserve orthogonality can be removed with the required accuracy. Second, frequency synchronization is necessary to estimate and compensate for any frequency deviation in the radio carrier frequency assigned to modulate the signal. Third, sampling-clock synchronization provides a conversion of the signal produced by a fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the analog signal into an analog signal assumed to be a certain span of time between two values. Last, if a coherent modulation scheme is used, the channel transfer function H.sub.i,k must be estimated and compensated for.



The present invention is most concerned with the channel estimation and compensation process to preserve synchronization in OFDM systems. Channel estimators have been developed with the general purpose of using algorithms to estimate received data sequences at a wireless receiver. The goal of these channel estimators is to produce a computationally and commercially feasible maximum-likelihood (ML) parameter group reflective of the originally transmitted information.



With each block of received data at a receiver, there is unwanted noise that must be taken into account. The process of determining the subject matter on a particular channel may become so computationally complex that various solutions become infeasible. To decrease the complexity, expectation-maximum (EM) algorithms were developed that introduced an iterative process that under some circumstances produce maximum-likelihood parameter estimates. Recovery of transmitted data may be accomplished using such estimates.



One such method for estimating a channel is discussed in "Sequence Estimation in the Presence of Random Parameters Via the EM Algorithm," by Costas N. Georghiades and Jae Choong Han (IEEE Transaction on Communications, Vol. 45, No. 3, March 1997, pp. 300-304). The contents of this paper are incorporated herein by reference. In the Georghiades et al. paper, the authors teach about an EM algorithm wherein optimizing sequence estimates involves two steps: (1) computing the likelihood function; and (2) maximizing over the set of all admissible sequences. The EM algorithm makes use of a log-likelihood function for the complete data in a two-step iterative procedure that converges to the ML estimation.



Georghiades et al. provide several examples of applying the EM algorithm. They discuss the application of the algorithm to the random phase channel in Section III and the fading channel in Section IV. Georghiades et al. explain that with respect to the fading channel, they propose applying the EM algorithm to address the computational difficulties in implementing an optimal receiver in a random-phase case because there is no obvious way of maximizing the log-likelihood function with respect to the data sequences having large sequence lengths.



Georghiades et al. teach that applying the EM algorithm to the fading channel involves calculating the expectation step of the EM algorithm using an initial estimate of the fading vector a.sub.o, and using the estimate of the fading vector a.sub.o to produce, by maximization, a sequence estimate. The sequence estimate is then used in another equation to produce the next fading estimate, and so on, until convergence. Convergence produces both a sequence estimator and a fading vector estimator.



The expectation ("E") portion of the EM algorithm includes computing certain values and the maximization ("M") step provides a convergence to the true ML estimate. In the maximizing step, Georghiades et al. note that their algorithm must maximize by maximizing each individual term in the sum, i.e., by making "symbol-by-symbol decisions." To improve the efficiency of the algorithm when maximization must be performed on a symbol-by-symbol basis, the Viterbi algorithm is used when trellis coding is present. However, when trellis coding is not present, Georghiades et al. seek to increase efficiency by fixing the number of iterations to two with only "very little performance loss."



The method described by Georghiades et al. is deficient in several respects. First, it only addresses a single antenna scenario. Further, the approach by Georghiades et al. only addresses re-estimation using all the compensated data symbols for Phase Shift Key (PSK) modulation. In this regard, the approach by Georghiades et al. maintains a high degree of computational complexity that prevents efficient use of the EM algorithm for channel estimation, especially when the number of data symbols in a block or frame is large.



Furthermore, the Georghiades et al. approach is limited to the PSK modulation using a single antenna receiver. Their approach is not well suited to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM), wherein the data-stream is split into multiple RF channels, each of which is sent over a sub-carrier frequency. The S/N ratio of each of the channels in OFDM is precisely defined and is carefully monitored to ensure maximum performance.



Other related patents teach different techniques for channel estimation. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,465,276 to Larsson et al., which contents are incorporated herein by reference, teaches a method of adaptive tracking for a fast time-varying channel with no feedback mechanism. The channel estimate taught in the '276 patent uses an estimated time derivative of the channel estimate that is adapted with the aid of the decided symbols. The channel estimate is adapted to the radio channel by the derivate estimate and the decided symbols. The approach of the '276 patent addresses a rapidly varying signal strength and fading where the channel estimate, predicted mainly through the derivative estimate, varies relatively evenly.



The '276 patent is not well suited to the OFDM system where the wireless channel remains quasi-constant over a block of symbols because it would then provide needless derivative computations.



U.S. Pat. No. 5,687,198 to Sexton et al. teaches a method of estimating a channel by first taking an initial channel estimate using pilot symbols and compensating all the data symbols. The '198 patent next teaches taking a group of samples and computing a vector average of the group of samples. Each sample is then compared to the vector average and the largest sample is retained and the others are discarded as noise. After receiving a predetermined number of retained samples, a new channel estimate is generated containing fewer errors than previously would have been obtained if the noisy samples had been retained.



The '198 patent fails to adequately address the deficiencies in the art where all of the data symbols must be compensated for in the first channel estimate, thus increasing the computational complexity of the channel estimation process.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



What is needed in the art is a method and system for performing accurate channel estimation in an OFDM system wherein the wireless channel remains quasi-constant over a block of symbols. Further what is needed is a system and method capable of use with multiple receiver antennas. Further what is needed is a system and method of increasing the efficiency of channel estimation by choosing and compensating a subset of the strongest data symbols from a set of received data symbols in the iterative process.



The present invention addresses the deficiencies of the prior art by increasing the accuracy and efficiency of channel estimation in several respects. First, the present invention comprises choosing a subset of symbols from the set of symbols received by the receiver and compensating only the subset in the iterative process of estimating the channel. The present invention further is particularly well suited to the OFDM system because of its broadband application and because the present invention reduces the structural and computational complexity which hinders the performance of OFDM systems. In OFDM systems, broadband transmission is decomposed into many parallel narrowband transmissions. The channel is flat and varies slowly relative to each narrowband transmission. In this regard, the present invention is particularly well suited to channel estimation in OFDM broadband systems.



According to the first embodiment of the present invention, a wireless system having a receiver comprises a channel estimator associated with the receiver. An initial estimator and a symbol selector provide data to a symbol compensator, which outputs its data to the channel estimator. The channel estimator is operable to receive a block of "n" transmitted symbols. These symbols may also be referred to as frequency tones. The symbols include "p" pilot symbols and "d" data symbols. The initial estimator uses the pilot symbols to estimate a wireless transmission channel to obtain an initial estimate and the symbol selector chooses the "m" strongest symbols from the received "d" data symbols. Preferably, "m" is less than "d" such that the number of symbols chosen is less than the total number of symbols received. The symbol compensator compensates the group of "m" strongest symbols using the initial estimate and re-estimates the channel using the compensated symbols and pilot symbols. The value of "m" may also be chosen to equal "d" in order to achieve best channel estimate at the cost of computational complexity.



The channel estimator next will either repeat the steps of choosing the group of "m" strongest symbols, compensating the "m" strongest data symbols and re-estimating the channel, or using a latest channel estimate to compensate all the symbols within the block. The functionality of the present invention may be implemented in the wireless receiver wherein the channel estimation functionality is programmed, for example, using a digital signal processor (DSP) or an application specific integrated chip (ASIC) and imbedded into the wireless system design software for accomplishing the steps set forth herein. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand the necessary hardware components to implement the present invention.



The second embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of estimating a channel in a wireless receiver. The method comprises receiving a block of "n" transmitted symbols, the symbols including "p" pilot symbols and "d" data symbols, using the pilot symbols to estimate a wireless transmission channel to obtain an initial estimate, choosing a group of "m" strongest symbols from the "d" received symbols, compensating the "m" strongest symbols using the initial estimate, and re-estimating the channel using the compensated symbols and pilot symbols. Finally, the method comprises either repeating the steps of choosing "m" strongest symbols, compensating the "m" strongest symbols and re-estimating the channel, or using a latest channel estimate to compensate all symbols within the block. Preferably, according to the second embodiment of the invention, "m" is less than "d", although that is not a requirement of the invention.



In another aspect of the second embodiment of the invention, after the "m" strongest symbols are chosen and compensated, and a channel re-estimate is performed, if a predetermined number of iterations has not yet occurred, another set of "x" symbols are chosen for compensation. Preferably, "x" is less than "m" but it may also be equal to or greater than "m". Preferably, the "x" strongest symbols are chosen for another iteration of compensating symbols. The "x" set of symbols may be chosen to further refine the compensation of symbols in preparation for the step of re-estimating the channel using compensated data symbols and the pilot symbols.



BRIEF-DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The foregoing advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of several embodiments of the invention with reference to the corresponding accompanying drawings, in which:



FIG. 1 illustrates the first embodiment of the present invention in a multiple antenna scenario;



FIG. 2 illustrates the second embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 3a illustrates an aspect of the second embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 3b illustrates yet another aspect of the second embodiment of the invention; and



FIG. 4 illustrates a variation on the second embodiment of the invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The present invention may be understood with reference to the drawings. FIG. 1 illustrates the first embodiment of the invention. A communication system receiver 100 comprises an analog front-end having two antenna receivers 102 and 104 for receiving data r.sub.1 and r.sub.2 respectively. The respective RF front ends 106 and 108 receive the signal where they are synchronized and demodulated from the OFDM signals as shown in blocks 110 and 112. As is known, the received signals r.sub.1 and r.sub.2 will experience different fading characteristics and their average strengths for r.sub.1d and r.sub.2d (the received signals r.sub.1 and r.sub.2 after they are OFDM demodulated) are different.



The demodulated data from block 110 is transmitted to an initial channel estimator 116 and a symbol selector 120. Similarly, the demodulated data from block 112 is transmitted to an initial channel estimator 118 and a symbol selector 120. The r.sub.1d demodulated data is delayed 122 and the r.sub.2d demodulated data is delayed 124. The symbol selector 120 performs three basic steps. First, the selector 120 compares the signal strengths between r.sub.1d and r.sub.2d using means known to those of skill in the art, such as maximum signal strength, average signal strength, or using the first signal strength received by the two antennas. Depending on the comparative method used, the selector 120 chooses the strongest set of signals. Next, from the stronger set of signals, the selector chooses the strongest data symbols based on the individual data symbol's strength. Finally, the selector 120 chooses data symbols from the weaker signal sequence at frequency tone positions corresponding to the selected data symbols from the strongest signal sequences. Both sets of data symbols are transmitted to a symbol compensator 126 to recover the original symbols using diversity combining or beam forming techniques.



The symbol compensator 126 performs compensation for the initial estimated data and the symbols selected by the symbol selector 120. Preferably, the symbol selector 120 is programmed to select the "m" strongest data symbols from the stronger sequences of the received sequences r.sub.1d and r.sub.2d. The symbol compensator 126 recovers the selected data symbols by using diversity combining, such as maximal ratio combining (MRC) or minimum mean squared-error (MMSE) combining, or beam forming techniques. Other techniques may be used and are known to those of skill in the art.



While only two input antennas 102, 104 are shown, the present invention may include more than two antennas to further improve the compensation performance of the system. In such a case, the symbol selector 120 will be modified to determine the relative strengths of the various sequences received and make determinations of which is the strongest sequence from which to choose the "m" strongest data symbols. Various combinations of the concept of using the frequency tone positions from the strongest sequence for choosing "m" data symbols at the same frequency tone positions from the weaker sequences may be used. For example, if four data sequences were received from four receiving antennas, then the strongest data sequence may be used for choosing the "m" strongest data symbols and "m" symbols will be chosen from the three weaker data sequences at the same frequency tone positions. Or, of the four sequences received, the symbol selector 120 may choose the two strongest sequences (say, for example, the first and third) and make calculated decisions regarding which data symbol frequency tone positions to use for choosing data symbols from the second and fourth sequences, i.e., whether the "m" strongest data symbol frequency tone positions from the first sequence will be used to choose "m" data symbols from the weaker second sequence, and the "m" strongest data symbols from the third sequence will be used for choosing the "m" data symbols at the same frequency tone position from the weaker fourth sequence.



The compensated symbols are transmitted to the channel re-estimator 128 that produced a channel estimation result "h". Following the channel estimation 128, iterative loops may be used to repeat the steps of symbol selection, 114, 120, symbol compensation 126 and channel re-estimation 128. A predetermined value of "T" may be programmed for controlling the number of iterative loops. The system 100 will continue to iterate until the value of "T" is met or exceeded. Once the value of "T" is met, the latest channel estimation "h" may be used by the data symbol compensator 130 for recovering data symbols that are transmitted to a demodulator and decoder (not shown) to obtain the original binary sequences.



Further, in the iterative process, a different value from "m" may be used following the first pass-through. For example, the channel estimator (or re-estimator) 128 or the symbol selector 120 may determine a value of "x" after the first pass-through and if the number of iterations "T" has not been met. The value of "x" would preferably be less than "m" but may be equal to or greater than "m". The "x" strongest symbols may then be chosen by the symbol selector 120 and used for symbol compensation 126 and channel re-estimation 128.



FIG. 2 illustrates a second embodiment of the invention related to a method of estimating a channel in a wireless receiver. The steps outlined in FIG. 2 are for illustration only and are not meant to be limited to the exact order or procedure but set forth the general concept of the invention. First, the receiver receives a block of "n" transmitted symbols (200). The symbols preferably include pilot symbols and may include "d" data symbols. Using the pilot symbols, a wireless channel is estimated (202). If this is the first pass through the estimation and compensation process, then the channel estimate at this stage may be referred to as an "initial" estimate. A set or group of "m" strongest symbols is chosen from the received "d" data symbols (204). Next, the "m" strongest symbols are compensated (206) using the channel estimate from step 202. The strongest symbols are determined by signal strength or by using a predetermined signal-to-noise ratio.



When multiple receive antennas are used as shown in FIG. 1, diversity combining or beam forming may be utilized to improve the compensation performance in step 206. Following compensation, the method comprises re-estimating the channel using the compensated symbols and pilot symbols (208).



The symbols chosen to be part of the group in step 204 are determined preferably on signal strength. A predetermined criteria will preferably be established in which symbols in the block having a signal strength above the criteria will be chosen to be in the group of "m" symbols to be compensated. However, other criteria may also be set for determining which symbols will be compensated.



Following the re-estimation of the channel, the method determines whether a predetermined number of iterations, "T", have occurred. If the number of iterations is less than "T" (210), the process returns and proceeds again at step (204). If the number of iterations is equal to or greater than "T" as determined in step (210), then the process uses a latest channel estimate to compensate all data symbols within the block (212). Step 210 may be equivalently asked as whether the number of iterations is greater than or equal to "T" or whether the number of iterations is less than "T." The different branches from step 210 of course will flip-flop between "yes" and "no" depending on how the system is programmed to ask the question. According to the preferred aspect of the second embodiment of the invention, "m" is less than "d." However, in another aspect of the invention, "m" equals "d." The choice for the value of "T" may be based on a number of factors, such as the DSP Mips requirements.



FIG. 3a illustrates yet another aspect of the second embodiment of the invention. Steps 200 through 210 are the same as those shown in FIG. 2. FIG. 3a illustrates a different branch of the method after block 210. As shown in FIG. 3a, if the number of iterations is less than "T" (210), then a number "x" of the strongest symbols are chosen (214). The "x" strongest symbols are compensated and the process proceeds to step 208 where the channel is re-estimated using the "x" number of compensated symbols and the pilot symbols. The value of "x" is preferably less than "m" in this example.



As shown in FIG. 3a, if the number of iterations is equal to or greater than "T", then the process continues to use the latest channel estimate to compensate all the symbols within the block (212). With the new branch introduced in FIG. 3a, the process may be more efficient by continuing to narrow down the strongest symbols used for compensation.



In FIG. 3b, a variation on the method shown in FIG. 3a is illustrated. In this aspect of the second embodiment of the invention, steps 200-210 are the same as that shown in FIG. 2, and a new branch is shown stemming from step 210. In FIG. 3b, if the number of iterations is less than "T" (210), then a value of "x" is chosen (218). If "x" is less then "m", then the method proceeds to steps 214 and 216 as shown in FIG. 3a. However, if "x" is equal to or greater than "m" (220), then "m" is set equal to "x" and the method proceeds at step 204 with choosing a group of the "m" strongest symbols from the "d" received symbols. The value of "x" may equal "m" and may be either greater than or less than "m." In this regard, for efficiency purposes, if "x" is less than "m", a smaller number of symbols may be chosen from the block for the repeated step of choosing a group of strongest symbols to compensate and use for channel estimation. Similarly, if predetermined criteria indicate, "x" may be greater than "m" in order to have a larger group of the strongest symbols compensated in the iterative process.



Another aspect of the second embodiment of the invention, shown in FIG. 4, relates to step 204: choosing a group of "m" strongest symbols for compensation. In broad terms, as set forth above, a subset of "m" of the strongest symbols are chosen. However, other methods of choosing and transmitting a set or sets of data symbols to a symbol compensator for data recover may be employed.



One such system has been described above in connection with the first embodiment of the invention. This variation on step 204 is shown in FIG. 4 and is preferably performed by the symbol selector 120. The selector 120 compares the signal strengths between r.sub.1d and r.sub.2d using means known to those of skill in the art, such as maximum signal strength, average signal strength, or using the first signal strength received by the two antennas. Depending on the comparative method used, the selector 120 chooses (302) the strongest set of signals. Next, from the stronger set of signals, the selector chooses the strongest data symbols based on the individual data symbol's strength (304). Finally, the selector 120 chooses data symbols from the weaker signal sequence at the corresponding frequency tone positions as the selected data symbols from the strongest signal sequences (306).



Both sets of data symbols are transmitted to the symbol compensation block 126 to recover the original symbols using diversity combining or beam forming techniques. While the example shown in FIG. 4 relates to two received sets of data sequences, the present invention may be expanded to include a plurality of signal sequences received from a plurality of receiving antennas. In such case, the concept of choosing a strongest set of sequences of the received sequences and using a subset of "m" strongest symbols from the chosen sequence may be modified to apply in various ways to systems with more than two antennas.



The method may be implemented using a system comprising a wireless receiver having an estimator unit programmed, for example, using a DSP or an ASIC and imbedded into the wireless system design software for accomplishing the steps set forth according to the various aspects of the method. This implementation will be understood by one of skill in the art with the information provided herein regarding the invention.



Although the above description may contain specific details, they should not be construed as limiting the claims in anyway. Other configurations of the described embodiments of the invention are part of the scope of this invention. Accordingly, the appended claims and their legal equivalents should only define the invention, rather than any specific examples given.

PatentNumber=7729281,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The systems and methods of this invention generally relate to communication systems. In particular, the systems and methods of this invention relate to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) communication systems, methods and protocols.



2. Description of Related Art



The IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards for wireless LANs, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, herein after referred to as 803.11a/g, specify wireless local area network communication systems in the 5 GHz and 2.4 GHz bands. These standards specify the use of OFDM as the modulation method used for communication. OFDM is a multicarrier modulation scheme that performs well in wireless communication channels. The 802.11a/g standards provide data rates of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbps. Different data rates are achieved by transmitting different, but constant, numbers of bits on all carriers in the multicarrier system and by operating at different coding rates. Table 1 below illustrates the coding rate and bits per subcarrier for each data rate for an exemplary 802.11a/g transceiver.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 DATARATE Bits per Subcarrier (Mbps) Coding Rate (R) (N_BPSC) 6 1/2 1 9 3/4 1 12 1/2 2 18 3/4 2 24 1/2 4 36 3/4 4 48 2/3 6 54 3/4 6



In order to determine the appropriate transmission data rate, the 802.11a/g transmitter uses a trial and error method of transmitting at various data rates, starting with, for example, the highest or last successful transmission rate, and waits for a positive acknowledgement indication from the receiver that the packet was successfully received. This simple positive acknowledgment indication method is used to optimize communications in conventional 802.11a based wireless systems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and methods of this invention use messages transmitted between a receiver and a transmitter to maximize the communication data rate. In particular, and in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a multicarrier modulation system uses messages that are sent from the receiver to the transmitter to exchange optimized communication parameters. The transmitter then stores these communication parameters and when transmitting to that particular receiver, the transmitter utilizes the stored parameters in an effort to maximize the data rate to that receiver. Likewise, when the receiver receives packets from that particular transmitter, the receiver can utilize the stored communication parameters for reception.



Accordingly, aspects of the invention relate to multicarrier modulation communication systems.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communication systems that transmit messages between transceivers.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to transmitting messages between a plurality of transceivers in an effort to optimize a data communication rate.



Further aspects of the invention relate to exchanging optimized communication parameters between a plurality of receivers in a multicarrier modulation system.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to exchanging communication parameters between a plurality of transceivers in a wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communications network to regulate the data rate between the transceivers.



These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or apparent from, the following detailed description of the embodiments.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The embodiments of the invention will be described in detailed, with reference to the following figures, wherein:



FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram illustrating an exemplary communication system according to this invention;



FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the components of a first and a second transceiver according to this invention;



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary communication method according to this invention;



FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary extended signal field according to this invention;



FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary communication system according to this invention; and



FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary transceiver in accordance with the second exemplary embodiment of this invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and the methods of this invention will be described in relation to a multicarrier modulation communication system. However, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention, the following description omits well-known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized. For the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein. For example, the systems and methods of this invention can generally be applied to any type of communications system including wired communication systems, wireless communication systems, such as wireless LANs, power line communication systems, wired or wireless telephone line communication systems, or any combination thereof.



Furthermore, while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the communication system collocated, it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network and/or the Internet, or within a dedicated multicarrier modulation system. Thus, it should be appreciated that the components of the communication system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network. It will be appreciated from the following description, and for reasons of computational efficiency, that the components of the communications system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system.



Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links, or any combination thereof, or any other known or later developed element(s) that is capable of supplying and/or communicating information to and from the connected elements. Additionally, the term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element.



Additionally, while this invention will be described in the relation to multicarrier modulation systems, the systems and methods of this invention can be applied to any communication system or transport protocol for transmitting information.



FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary communication system 1. Communication system 1 comprises one or more stations 10 and an access point (AP) 20. This exemplary embodiment illustrates a wireless LAN where a plurality of stations 10 communication with the access point 20. In particular, in its exemplary wireless LAN, multiple stations 10 share a common communication medium. One possible configuration includes an access point 20 that is used to communicate between the stations 10 (BSS). The access point 20 provides the local relay functionality between the stations 10 and to, for example, other wired and/or wireless networks (not shown). Therefore, when station 1 communicates with station 2, the communication, e.g., a packet, is sent from station 1 to the access point 20, and then from the access point 20 to station 2. For this reason, in most cases a station 10 is only transmitting packets to the access point 20 and receiving packets from the access point 20. The access point 20 on the other hand, must communicate with all the stations 10 in the network.



Another possible configuration does not rely on an access point 20, but instead communications take place directly between the stations 10 (IBSS) in the network illustrated by the dashed lines in FIG. 1. In this embodiment, where communications occur directly between the stations 10, there are no relay functions served by the access point 20.



In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the wireless network relies on communicating parameters between a plurality of transceivers and in particular from a receiver to a transmitter. These parameters are stored at the transmitter and are used for subsequent transmission of packets to the receiver the parameters were received from. Thus, the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well whether the network is configured to have an access point 20, or not, as each station, including the access point, if used, maintains tables comprising the communication parameters.



Several different types of communication parameters can be sent from the receiver to the transmitter to optimize communication to, for example, increase or decrease the data rate. In general, any parameter that can modify performance can be included in the message. The following examples are the more common types of communication parameters that can be exchanged between the receiver and the transmitter.



The Bit Allocation Table (BAT)--the bit allocation table in multicarrier modulation systems specify the number of bits modulated on each carrier, which are also referred to as subchannels, subcarriers, tones or bins, in a multicarrier modulation system. The 802.11a/g transceivers use the same number of bits on all subchannels, which is the simplest type of bit allocation table. Since wireless communications experience multipath, the communications channel is not flat in frequency, which means that different subcarriers will have different signal to noise ratios (SNRs). Therefore, in order to achieve a constant bit error rate (BER) on all carriers, a bit allocation table is used so that carriers with a higher SNR modulate more bits than carriers with a lower SNR. This process is often referred to as "bit loading." Bit loading and the use of a bit allocation table has been used in ADSL multicarrier communication systems for years. For example, ITU standards G.992.1 and G.992.2, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are international ADSL standards that specify communication using bit loading and bit allocation tables. Bit loading also enables using constellation sizes much higher than 64 QAM (6 bit) which is the maximum constellation size of standard 802.11a/g systems. Bit loading constellations that modulate up to 15 bits, or more, can be used, if supported by the channel, thereby achieving significant data rate improvements.



Coded modulation parameters--systems that use coded modulation techniques, such as trellis coded modulation and turbo coded modulation, achieve much higher coding advantages than systems that do not combine modulation and forward error correction encoding. However, coded modulation schemes do not encode all information bits and therefore coded modulation must be combined with bit loading in multipath channels in order to achieve the coding gain benefits.



Variable cyclic prefix length--the cyclic prefix (CP) is used in multicarrier systems to combat multipath. In general, as long as the impulse response of the channel is less than the CP length, there will be no inter-symbol interference (ISI) or inter-channel (ICI) interference due to the channel multipath. However, since the CP is a redundant cyclic extension added to every communication symbol, the CP also results in a data rate loss. The 802.11a/g standards use a fixed CP with a length of 0.8 microseconds, which is 20% of the symbol length. Therefore, the addition of the CP results in a 20% data rate reduction. This is a good tradeoff if the channel is approximately the same length as a CP. However, if the channel is much shorter, e.g., only 0.1 microseconds, then it makes sense to decrease the CP length to 0.1 microseconds in order to get a 19% data rate improvement. Likewise, if the channel is much longer than 0.8 microseconds, the CP should be extended to match the length of the channel because significant levels of ISI and ICI will probably greatly reduce the achievable data rate.



Variable pilot tone allocation--standard 802.11a/g receivers use four fixed pilot tones that are spread across the transmission frequency band. This is necessary in 802.11a/g systems since the transmitter does not know which portions of the frequency bands are in deep nulls due to multipath. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the receiver can communicate to the transmitter which carrier should be used for pilot tones. Since the receiver can determine which carriers have a high SNR, the receiver can instruct the transmitter to place pilot tones on those high SNR carriers. In fact, in many cases, a single high SNR carrier is sufficient to be used for all timing recovery requirements thereby allowing the system to transmit data on the three carriers that the 802.11a/g systems use for pilot tones. This also provides a data rate increase when compared to standard 802.11a/g systems.



Alternatively, the communication system may not have any carriers dedicated as pilot tones, i.e., all carriers that are modulated are modulated with information bits. In this case, a carrier that carries information bits may be used to perform "decision-directed" timing recovery algorithms. For example, a carrier that is used for this type of decision-directed algorithm will often carry fewer bits than actually possible at the specified BER in order to provide a reference signal with a high SNR.



Fine gains per carrier--Fine gains are used in ADSL standards such as G.992.1 to equalize the BER across all the carriers when bit loading is used. Fine gains are small adjustments in the transmit power level that enable a subchannel to achieve the BER required by the system based on the specific measure of SNR.



Throughout the following discussion, exemplary embodiments of this invention will be directed toward the bit allocation tables (BATs) as the primary optimized communication parameter that is being exchanged between the stations. This is done because the use of BATs is one of the most effective ways to achieve optimized communication and to modify data rates. However, it is to be appreciated that other communication parameters including, but not limited to, fine gains, trellis coded modulation, pilot tone location, variable cyclic prefix length, and the like, can also be exchanged, with or without BATs, between stations to realize a change in data rate.



To implement a change in data rates, a message containing the communication parameters is sent from a receiver to a transmitter. These communication parameters can be communicated in a plurality of ways. For example, the communication parameters can be sent to the transmitter as part of a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, after receiving the positive acknowledgment packet, the transmitter would use the communication parameters contained in the positive acknowledgment packet for the transmission of subsequent packets. The communication parameters could also be sent, for example, as part of a management or data frame that is intended to communicate information between the transceivers. For example, the communication parameters could be sent as part of an extended header field of any packet sent between the transceivers.



The exemplary embodiment of the protocol used for exchanging communication parameters in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 1 and 2. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary network 1, such as a wireless network. The network 1 comprises a plurality of stations 10 interconnected by a plurality of links and an access point 20. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the components associated with a first and a second transceiver, e.g., the stations 10 or the access point 20. In particular, the first transceiver 100 comprises a message determination module 110, a communication parameter determination module 120, a packet determination module 130, a transmitter 140, a receiver 150, a memory 160, and a controller 170, all connected by a link (not shown). The second transceiver 200 comprises a message determination module 210, a communication parameter determination module 220, a packet determination module 230, a transmitter 240, a receiver 250, a memory 260, and a controller 270, all connected by a link (not shown).



For ease of illustration the exemplary method used for the high rate OFDM communication systems will be discussed in relation to a first transceiver sending packets to a second transceiver. For example, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver the access point 20. Alternatively, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver, station 1, or the like. The relevant portion of the protocol commences with the first transceiver sending a packet at one of a highest possible data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps for 802.11a/g, at the data rate of the last successful transmission, or at a known data rate.



Specifically, the packet determination module 130, in cooperation with the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170 coordinate the transmission of this first packet, i.e., before any optimized communication parameters are exchanged, and transmit the packet using standard size fixed communication parameter settings such as those specified in IEEE 802.11a/g, e.g., fixed six bits per tone on all carriers.



Next, if the second transceiver's receiver 250 successfully receives the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet again with the cooperation of the packet determination modulation 230, the transmitter 240, the memory 260 and the controller 270. This positive acknowledgment packet also comprises optimized communication parameters determined by the communication parameter determination module 220 to be used by the second transceiver 200 for subsequent reception of packets from the first transceiver 100. For example, the positive acknowledgment packet may contain a BAT with different bits per subcarrier based on, for example, the channel characteristics as measured by the second transceiver 200 and determined by the communication parameter determination module 220. Alternatively, or in addition, this acknowledgment packet may also indicate any of the optimized transmission parameters described above, e.g., which one or more carriers should be used as pilot tones as discussed above.



If the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 does not return to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, the first transceiver 100, again in cooperation with the packet determination module 130, the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170, sends a packet at the next highest or another known standard data rate.



If the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment packet, the first transceiver 100, in cooperation with memory 160 stores the optimized communication parameters. The first transceiver 100 then uses the stored communication parameters for transmission of subsequent packets to the second transceiver 200. The use of the optimized communication parameters is indicated in the header field of the packet sent from the first transceiver 100 to the second transceiver 200. For example, the message determination module 110 modifies the header field to indicate which optimized communication parameters are being used.



The second transceiver's receiver 250 receives the packet from the first transceiver 100 and determines which communication parameters were used based on the information in the data field of the packet. This is accomplished by, for example, decoding the header field of the packet that indicates that optimized communication parameters are being used. The packet can then be demodulated and decoded based on the information contained in the data field in association with the message determination/decoded module 210 using the optimized communication parameters that were sent from the second transceiver to the first transceiver in the previous positive acknowledgement packet.



After the second transceiver 200 receives from the first transceiver 100 the packet which has the header field specifying which optimize communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 sends a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. This positive acknowledgment may contain the same parameters as used for the last successful received packet as an indication to the second transceiver 200 to continue transmitting with the stored optimized communication parameters. Equivalently, the positive acknowledgment may be just a basic acknowledgment packet, as in conventional 802.11a/g systems, to indicate that the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver and communication should continue using the same optimized communication parameters. In the event that optimized communication parameters accompany every positive acknowledgement during an extended communication session, this mechanism effectively tracks



Alternatively, the second transceiver 200 may send a new, second set of optimized communication parameters in the acknowledgment message. These new parameters could, for example, request a change in data rate, such as a higher data rate. In this case, the first transceiver 100 could start using the second set of optimized communication parameters for transmission after receiving the acknowledgment packet.



In the case where the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet transmitted by the first transceiver 100 that has the modified header field specifying which communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 will not send a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. In this case, the first transceiver 100 would determine that the optimized communication parameters are no longer valid and will start the protocol all over again by going back to the first step were the first transceiver 100 will commence communication at a known data rate, such as the highest data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps in 802.11a/g systems, using the fixed/standard communication parameters.



In the case were the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment from the second transceiver 200 after transmitting a packet using the first set of optimized parameters, and this positive acknowledgment contains a new, second set of optimized parameters, these new parameters should be used for subsequent transmission of packets. However, if the second transceiver 200 does not receive a positive acknowledgment packet after sending a packet using the second set of optimize parameters, then the second transceiver 200 reverts back to the first step of the protocol were a packet is sent at a known e.g., next highest data. However, in this case, the first transceiver may start by transmitting using the first set of optimized communication parameters or by transmitting at a data rate using a fixed/standard communication parameter, e.g., 54 Mbps in the 802.11a/g standard.



Alternatively, or further in addition, the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 may periodically send "reference" or "training" packets that can be used by the receiver portion of the transceiver in conjunction with the communication parameter determination module to determine the optimized transmission parameters. For example, these training packets can be packets that contain signals that are known to the transceivers in advance. For example, the training packets can be non-information carrying packets that are sent during times when there is no data to be sent between the stations and the network. Since these packets are predefined and known to the receiver prior to reception, the receivers can use them to accurately measure the effects of the channel, such as the multipath profile, the SNR per carrier, or the like. These training packets can also be used to train receiver equalizers that are used to equalize, for example, the wireless channel and/or receiver filters and/or transmitter filters.



In conventional wireless LAN systems, every packet contains a header field that indicates the data rate used for transmitting the data field of the packet. The header field is transmitted using a fixed modulation/encoding scheme, such as in the 802.11a/g standard, and therefore can be demodulated by all stations. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header field will also indicate whether optimized communication parameters were used for transmitting the data field in the packet. This could be done in several ways. For example, the header field could contain the indication of the data rate as in 802.11a/g. Alternatively, the header field could contain a bit field that indicates whether the optimized communication parameters are to be used. This bit field could be a single bit that indicates either to use the last exchanged optimized communication parameters, or one of the standard fixed communication parameters. Alternatively, the bit field could be a plurality of bits indicating one of a plurality of sets of optimized communication parameters.



In the example of a network with a access point 20, each station transmitter would store optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. These optimized parameters would be generated by the access point 20 receiver and sent to the station(s) as described above. Obviously, since each station 10 is in a different location, and could possibly move, each station transmitter would probably have different optimized parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. The access point 20 must also store these optimized parameters to be used by the access point 20 receiver when receiving packets from the various stations 10. For each station 10, the access point 20 may have a different set of optimize parameters. Since the access point 20 receives packets from all stations, the access point 20 must be able to determine the parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. The access point 20 can use the packet header to determine whether the optimized parameters have been used, but since the access point 20 does not know which station actually sent the packet, the access point 20 may not be able to determine the correct parameters based on the header alone.



Accordingly, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header also includes a bit field that indicates which station sent the packet. In this case, the access point 20 would use that information to determine which set of parameters should be used. Alternatively, the access point 20 may use other measures to determine which station sent the packet. For example, the access point 20 could use the power of the received signal, the channel estimate based on frequency equalizer taps, carrier offset values, or the like.



In the example of a network, such as a wireless LAN, with an access point 20, the access point transmitter would store the optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to a specific station 10. These optimized communication parameters would be generated by the station receiver and sent to the access point 20 as described above. Obviously, since each station is in a different location, the access point 20 could have a plurality of sets of different optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the different stations 10. Each station 10 would then also store the optimize communication parameters corresponding to that station to be used by the station receiver when receiving packets from the access point 20. Each station 10 should also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., SIGNAL field. Therefore, each station 10 uses the packet header to determine whether the optimized communication parameters have been used. Unlike the access point receiver, each station receiver is intended to receive packets only from the access point 20 and therefore a station 10 may be able to determine the communication parameters based on the header alone.



Since all stations will receive packets from the access point 20, each station must also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the preamble and the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. Obviously, if the packet is not intended for a particular station receiver, the receiver may use the incorrect optimized communication parameters to receive a packet. This is actually not a problem since the packet was not intended for that receiver in the first place. However, since the protocol requires transmitters to defer to communications already in progress, every station must be able to determine various protocol counters based on the packet duration. The header must provide a way to determine the packet duration even if use of the wrong communication parameters does not permit the receiver to correctly decode the message.



As discussed above, once the receiving transceiver determines the optimized transmission parameters, the receiving transceiver needs to send this information to the transmitting transceiver to be used for subsequent communication between the two devices. Furthermore, as discuss above, the optimized transmission information can be sent as part of an acknowledgment packet. Alternatively, or in addition, the optimized transmission parameters can be exchanged as part of a management frame or regular information carrying frame on a periodic or, for example, triggered basis. In either case, the optimized transmission parameters can be sent as part of an extended packet header field, also known as the SIGNAL field, or as part of the packet information field. In the case of an extended packet header field, the information is sent at a fixed rate and can be decoded by all systems in the network. For example, a bit in the packet header field can be used to indicate that a new set of optimized transmission parameters has been appended to an extended packet header field.



In the latter case, the information can be sent using optimized parameters for communication. Note that in this case the optimized transmission parameters that are used for transmitting the optimized transmission parameter information from the receiver to the transmitter are not the same. For example, assume that the receiver of the first transceiver 150 determines optimized transmission information for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The first transceiver's transmitter 140 sends a packet to the second transceiver's receiver 250 where the packet contains the optimized transmission parameters for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The packet that is sent from the first transceiver's transmitter 140 to the second transceiver's receiver 250 may be sent using a standard fixed rate, as is done in conventional 802.11a/g systems, or may be sent using optimized transmission parameters communicated between the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200. Obviously, the optimized transmission parameters used for transmission from the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 would have been exchanged earlier in the communications session.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating a general exemplary method of exchanging communication parameters according to this invention. Specifically, control begins in step S100 and continues to step S110. In step S110, a first transceiver (designated T1) determines and sends a packet that is at least one of a known, highest, last successful or changed rate to a second transceiver (designated T2). Next, in step S120, a determination is made whether the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver. If the packet was not successfully received, control jumps to step S130. Otherwise, control continues to step S140.



In step S130, the communication parameters specifying the data rate are incremented/decremented as appropriate. Control then continues back to step S110.



In step S140, the second transceiver returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment that may or may not comprise optimized communication parameters. If the positive acknowledgement contains optimized communication parameters, the second transceiver stores these parameters. Next, in step S150, the first transceiver receives the acknowledgment. Then, in step S160, the first transceiver stores the optimized communication parameters if the positive acknowledgment returned from the second transceiver contains communication parameters. Control then continues to step S170.



In step S170, the first transceiver determines a header field. Next, in step S180, the first transceiver commences communication using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S190, a determination is made whether the second transceiver received the packet. If the packet was received, control continues to step S200. Otherwise, control jumps to step S130.



In step S200, the second transceiver decodes the header field and determines the communication parameters that were used. Next, in step S210, the second transceiver demodulates and decodes the data field using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S220, the second transceiver determines the acknowledgment to return to the first transceiver. Control then continues to step S230.



In step S230, the second transceiver sends the acknowledgment to the first transceiver. This message may or may not contain optimized communication parameters. Control then continues to step S240 where the control sequence ends.



The basic concepts discussed above can also be extended to legacy systems. In the following discussion, stations that only implement the current 802.11a/g standard will be referred to as legacy stations. Stations that are enabled with the methods of this invention to provide high data rate communications with optimized communication parameters will be referred to as extended rate (ER) stations. The method and protocols that enable exchanging, transmitting and receiving using these optimized communication parameters are referred to as extended rate systems and protocols. In this exemplary embodiment, an extended rate station also supports the current 802.11a/g standard.



For example, FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary communication system 500 that comprises a plurality of extended rate stations 510, 520, one or more legacy stations 530 and, for example, an access point 540.



When operating in an environment with legacy stations 530 and extended rate stations 510, 520 there are two main interoperability requirements to ensure network stability. First, a legacy station 530 must be able to receive the ER packet header (SIGNAL field) and use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will guarantee that the legacy station 530 will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



Secondly, an extended rate station 510, 520 must be able to determine the transmission parameters e.g., the bit allocation table, based on an extended rate packet header if the packet is intended for that station. In addition, an extended rate station that was not intended to receive the packet must also use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will ensure that the extended rate station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



In an effort to ensure the two above requirements are met, FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary modified packet header using an extended signal field. In this illustrative 802.11a example, the SIGNAL field is extended. The first part of the extended SIGNAL field has a structure identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field header. The first symbol of the extended SIGNAL field is modulated according to the SIGNAL modulation encoding parameters as specified in IEEE 802.11a for the standard SIGNAL field, i.e., 6 Mbps BPSK, code rate=1/2. Therefore, a legacy station can correctly receive the signal field bits from the first part of the extended SIGNAL field.



The second part of the extended signal field in the next symbol contains the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) station identifiers. These extended signal field bits are also modulated using the 802.11a 6 Mbps, code rate=1/2 modulation method. In FIG. 4, these extended signal field bits are sent in the second symbol of the extended signal field header that corresponds to the data symbol number one in a standard 802.11a system.



Since there are both legacy and extended rate stations in the exemplary communication system 500 illustrated in FIG. 5, an extended rate station needs to be able to determine and identify when a received packet contains an extended signal field header, which is contained in two symbols, as opposed to a standard 802.11a header, which contained in only one symbol. This can be accomplished by setting a bit in the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field. This bit will be referred to as the ER-enable bit. As an example, the 802.11a reserved bit between the rate field and the length field can be used as the ER-enable bit. For example, when this reserved bit (R) is set to 1, this indicates that an extended rate header is being used. When the reserved bit (R) is set to 0, this indicates that a standard 802.11a header is being used.



Again with reference to FIG. 5, two ER stations 510 and 520 are illustrated along with a legacy station 530 and an extended rate access point 540. The various links in FIG. 5 represent, for example, the communication paths of an extended rate packet where the ER-enable bit (R) is flagged in the reserved bit R position and the TX/RX STA ID (Transmitter/Receiver Station Identifier) is present in the extended SIGNAL field.



The exemplary communications that occur between the various stations will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 5 and 6. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates the exemplary components that could be present in a station illustrated in FIG. 5. In particular, the station 600 comprises a message determination module 610, a communication parameter determination module 620, a packet determination module 630, an ER detection module 640, a station ID decoder/encoder 650, a receiver 660, a transmitter 670, a memory 680 and a controller 690. Many of the components illustrated in the station 600 are comparable to those seen in the first transceiver 100 and second transceiver 200. Accordingly, the functions of those components will not be re-discussed in association with this embodiment of the invention.



Communication path 1: Transmission of packets from the access point 540 to a ER capable station, such as ER station 510.



The access point 540 forwards to the ER station 510 a packet. The ER station 510 detects the ER-enable bit with the cooperation of the ER detection module 640 and determines that the packet is an ER packet.



Next, the station ID decoder/encoder 650 decodes the RX STA ID bits and the extended header field to determine if the received packet is intended for this particular station. The ER station 510 also decodes the TX STA ID in the extended rate header with the cooperation of the station ID decoder/encoder 650 and determines if this packet is coming from the access point 540. Based on this information, the receiving extended rate station 510 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving the packets from the access point 540. The extended rate station 510 uses the optimize parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., the data field, of the packet. Naturally, the RX station had sent these optimized communication parameters to the AP earlier in the session.



Communication Path 2: Another ER-capable station, e.g., station 520, accidentally receives a packet from the access point (AP) 540.



The station 520, in cooperation with the ER detection module 640, detects the ER-enable bit in the packet sent from the access point 540, and determines that the packet is an ER packet and, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field and determines that the received packet is not intended for this particular station. The station 520 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field, as discussed below.



Since the station 520 determines that the received packet is not intended for itself, the station 520 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when a packet is received, a station can detect very early whether it is the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet if it is not. This will, for example, save power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power required to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore, for example, the station may go into a low power mode.



Communication Path 3: The legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from the access point (AP) 540.



Legacy stations in general are not aware of ER packet headers. Therefore, the legacy station 530 will correctly decode the first part of the ER packet which is contained in the first symbol of the header field and is identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field, except for the ER-enable bit which the legacy station 530 should ignore since it is reserved.



The legacy station 530 sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE/LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below allowing correct legacy operation of the 802.11a medium occupancy algorithms. Using the spoofed RATE and LENGTH information, the legacy station 530 will incorrectly demodulate the data symbols, since the station does not know the optimized communication parameters, until eventually a CRC error will cause the packet to be ignored.



Communication Path 4: Transmission of packets from an ER-capable station 510 to an access point (AP) 540.



The access point (AP) 540 detects the ER-enable bit, determines the received packet is an ER packet and decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field to determine if the packet is intended for itself. The access point 540 also decodes the TX STA ID in the ER header and determines which station has transmitted the packet. Based on this information, the access point 540 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving packets from that particular transmitter station. The access point 540 then uses the optimized parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., DATA Field, of the packet. Of course, the access point 540 had sent the optimized communication parameters to the transmitter station earlier in the communications session.



Communication Path 5: Another ER-capable station 520 accidentally receives a packet originating from ER station 510.



The station 510 detects the ER-enable bit, with the cooperation of the ER detection module, determines this is an ER packet and decodes, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, the RX ST ID bits in the extended header field to determine that the packet is not intended for itself. The station 510 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below. Since the station 510 knows that this packet is not intended for itself, the station 510 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when this happens, a station can detect very early that it is not the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet. This will save, for example, power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore the station may, for example, go into the low power mode.



Communication Path 6: Legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from an ER-enabled station 510.



This scenario produces the same results as illustrated in relation to communication path 3.



"Spoofing" the RATE and LENGTH Field.



When a legacy station receives an ER packet, such as in communication paths 3 and 6, the legacy station must be able to determine the duration of the packet, i.e., the time required for packet transmission, based on the standard 802.11a header contained in the first symbol of the ER packet header, which every station can correctly decode. Thus, for the legacy station, R1-R4 bits, which do not have any meaning to the ER-capable RX STA, must be set to one of the legitimate patterns used in the 802.11a standard, shown in Table 1. Additionally, the LENGTH field must be filled in in conjunction with the RATE field in a way that the required time for packet transmission that the legacy RX STA would calculate based on the "spoofed" RATE and LENGTH parameters would coincide with the one that is needed by the ER RX STA using optimized communication parameters. This will guarantee that the legacy station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so the accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



A ER-capable RX STA will also exploit the spoofed RATE, LENGTH information shown in the SIGNAL field when the packet is not intended for its reception, such as in cases 2 and 5. Once the ER-capable RX STA recognizes that the reserved bit R is turned on, the ER-capable RX STA examines the extended SIGNAL symbol and, based on the RX STA ID, determines that this packet is not intended for itself. Based on the `spoofed` RATE and LENGTH information in the SIGNAL Field, the RX STA sets the counters related with virtual carrier sense algorithm in exactly the same manner as the legacy station and may then enter the power saving mode.



As an example, the ER data rate is 108 Mbps, which is twice the maximum data rate (54 Mbps) of conventional 802.11a systems. This may be achieved by, for example, bit loading and using trellis coded modulation. A system transmitting at 108 Mbps will have 432 data bits per symbol. Therefore, transmitting a packet with, for example, 864 bytes will require 864*8/432=16 symbols. In addition, the ER protocol requires an extra symbol in the ER header, as compared to standard 802.11a systems, that contains the TX and RX Station IDs. Therefore, the transmission of an 864 byte packet requires 16+1=17 symbols at 108 Mbps. In order to allow legacy 802.11a stations to correctly determine the NAV, the RATE and LENGTH Fields of the ER header need to be set so that the legacy station will also determine that 17 symbols are needed for transmission of the packet. Therefore, for example, the RATE and LENGTH fields could be set to RATE=54 Mbps and LENGTH=459 bytes. In this case, since 54 Mbps results in 216 data bits per symbol, the legacy station would determine the packet duration to be 459*8/216=17 symbols and correctly set the NAV. Obviously other RATE and LENGTH combinations can be used from the 802.11a standard to enable the legacy station to correctly set the NAV. For example, RATE=6 Mbps and LENGTH=51 bytes would also result in a packet whose data field is 17 symbols long.



In the example described above, the extended header field only contained the RX and TX STA IDs. This implies that there is only one set of optimized parameters for each TX/RX communication. In an alternative embodiment, the extended header field also, or alternatively, contains an indication of which one of a plurality of optimized communication parameters sets is to be used for transmission and reception of a packet. These parameter sets are sent from the receiver station to the transmitter station and stored in each.



The above-described communication system can be implemented on wired or wireless telecommunications devices, such a modem, a multicarrier modem, a DSL modem, an ADSL modem, an XDSL modem, a VDSL modem, a multicarrier transceiver, wired or wireless wide/local area network system, or the like, or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device. Additionally, the systems, methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element(s), an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hard-wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, modem, transmitter/receiver, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts illustrated herein can be used to implement the various communication methods according to this invention.



Furthermore, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object-oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively, the disclosed communication system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and/or efficiency requirements of the system, the particular function, and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The communication systems, methods and protocols illustrated herein however can be readily implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and telecommunications arts.



Moreover, the disclosed methods can also be readily implemented in software, stored on an information storage media or computer-readable storage medium, such as a hard drive, memory or optical, magnet or magneto-optic disc, executed on programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor, or the like. In these instances, the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA.RTM. or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system, or the like. The communication system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems of a communications transceiver.



It is therefore apparent that there has been provided, in accordance with the present invention, systems and methods for exchanging communication parameters. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

PatentNumber=7783291,RELATED CO-PENDING U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS



The following three (3) related U.S. patent applications, submitted by Applicant/Inventor Kamilo Feher, are co-pending:



U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,610, Ref. No. (56), entitled "Location finder, tracker, communication and remote control system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005.



U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,670, Ref. No. (57), entitled "Medical diagnostic and communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005.



U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,609, Ref. No. (58), entitled "Multimode communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005.



CITED REFERENCES



Partial List of Relevant Literature



Several references, including issued United States patents, pending US patents, and other references are identified herein to assist the reader in understanding the context in which the invention is made, some of the distinctions of the inventive structures and methods over that which was known prior to the invention, and advantages of this new invention, the entire contents of which being incorporated herein by reference. This list is intended to be illustrative rather than exhaustive.



All publications including patents, pending patents, documents, published papers, articles and reports contained, listed or cited in these mentioned publications and/or in this disclosure-patent/invention are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each publication or report, or patent or pending patent and/or references listed in these publications, reports, patents or pending patents were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.



CROSS REFERENCE TO U.S. PATENTS



The following referenced documents contain subject matter related to that disclosed in the current disclosure: 1. U.S. Pat. No. 6,907,291 issued Jun. 14, 2005, Snell et al.: "Secure telemetry system and method for an implantable cardiac stimulation device", assigned to Pacesetter, Inc., Sylmar, Calif. 2. U.S. Pat. No. 6,906,996 issued Jun. 14, 2005, Ballantyne, G. J.: "Multiple modulation wireless transmitter" 3. U.S. Pat. No. 6,889,135 issued May 3, 2005, Curatolo, B. S. et al.: "Security and tracking system" 4. U.S. Pat. No. 6,879,842 issued Apr. 12, 2005, King, J. et al.: "Foldable Wireless Communication Device Functioning as a Cellular Telephone and Personal Digital Assistant" 5. U.S. Pat. No. 6,879,584 issued Apr. 12, 2005, Thro et al.: "Communication services through multiple service providers" 6. U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,859 issued Apr. 5, 2005 Anderson, R. J. et al.: "Method for Estimating TDOA and FDOA in a Wireless Location System" 7. U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,310 issued Apr. 5, 2005, Dunstan, R. A.: "Method and apparatus to locate a device in a dwelling or other enclosed space" 8. U.S. Pat. No. 6,865,395 issued Mar. 8, 2005, Riley, W.: "Area based position determination for terminals in a wireless network" 9. U.S. Pat. No. 6,842,617 issued Jan. 11, 2005, Williams B. G.: "Wireless Communication Device with Multiple External Communication Links" 10. U.S. Pat. No. 6,823,181 issued Nov. 23, 2004, Kohno et al.: "Universal platform for software defined radio" 11. U.S. Pat. No. 6,807,564 issued Apr. 12, 2005, Zellner et al.: "Panic button IP device" 12. U.S. Pat. No. 6,788,946 issued Sep. 7, 2004 Winchell, D. et al.: "Systems and Methods for Delivering Information within a Group of Communication System" 13. U.S. Pat. No. 6,741,187 issued May 25, 2004, Flick, K.: "Vehicle tracker providing vehicle alarm alert features and related methods" 14. U.S. Pat. No. 6,711,440 issued Mar. 23, 2004, Deal et al.: "MRI-compatible medical device with passive generation of optical sensing signals" issued to Biophan Technologies, Inc. 15. U.S. Pat. No. 6,424,867 issued Jul. 23, 2002, Snell et al.: "Secure telemetry system and method for an implantable cardiac stimulation device", assigned to Pacesetter, Inc., Sylmar, Calif. 16. U.S. Pat. No. 6,393,294 issued May 21, 2002 Perez-Breva et al.: "Location determination using RF fingerprinting" 17. U.S. Pat. No. 6,067,018 issued May 23, 2000 Skelton et al.: "Lost Pet Notification System" 18. U.S. Pat. No. 6,591,084 issued Jul. 8, 2003, Chuprun, et al.: "Satellite based data transfer and delivery system" 19. U.S. Pat. No. 6,772,063 Ihara et al.: "Navigation Device, Digital Map Display System, Digital Map Displaying Method in Navigation Device, and Program", Issued Aug. 3, 2004. 20. U.S. Pat. No. 6,775,254 Willenegger et al.: "Method and Apparatus for Multiplexing High Speed Packet Data Transmission with Voice/Data Transmission", Issued Aug. 10, 2004. 21. U.S. Pat. No. 6,748,021 Daly, N.: "Cellular radio communications system" Issued Jun. 8, 2004. 22. U.S. Pat. No. 6,775,371 Elsey et al.: "Technique for Effectively Providing Concierge-Like Services in a Directory Assistance System", issued Aug. 10, 2004. 23. U.S. Pat. No. 6,539,253 Thompson et al.: "Implantable medical device incorporating integrated circuit notch filters", issued Mar. 25, 2003 24. U.S. Pat. No. 6,418,324 Doviak, et al.: "Apparatus and method for transparent wireless communication between a remote device and host system", Jul. 9, 2002 25. U.S. Pat. No. 6,128,330 Schilling; D. L.: "Efficient shadow reduction antenna system for spread spectrum", issued Oct. 3, 2000. 26. U.S. Pat. No. 6,101,224, Lindoff et al.: "Method-apparatus for linearly modulated signal using polar modulation" issued on Aug. 8, 2000 27. U.S. Pat. No. 6,088,585 Schmitt, J. C., and Setlak; D. R.: "Portable telecommunication device including a fingerprint sensor and related methods", issued on Jul. 11, 2000. 28. U.S. Pat. No. 5,479,448, Seshadri, N.: "Method and Apparatus for Providing Antenna Diversity", issued on Dec. 26, 1995 29. U.S. Pat. No. 5,430,416, issued on Jul. 4, 1995 Black et al.: "Power amplifier having nested amplitude modulation controller and phase modulation controller" 30. U.S. Pat. No. 4,745,628, McDavid et al.: "Symbol Generator for Phase Modulated Systems" issued on May 17, 1988 31. U.S. Pat. No. 3,944,926, Feher, K.: "Timing Technique for NRZ Data Signals", issued Mar. 16, 1976. 32. U.S. Pat. No. 4,339,724, Feher, K.: "Filter" issued Jul. 13, 1982. 33. U.S. Pat. No. 4,720,839, Feher et al.: "Efficiency Data Transmission Techniques", issued Jan. 19, 1988. 34. U.S. Pat. No. 4,350,879 Feher, K.: "Time Jitter Determining Apparatus", issued Sep. 21, 1982. 35. U.S. Pat. No. 4,567,602 S. Kato, K. Feher: "Correlated Signal Processor", issued Jan. 28, 1986. 36. U.S. Pat. No. 4,644,565 issued Feb. 17, 1987. J. Seo, K. Feher: "Superposed Quadrature Modulated Baseband Signal Processor" 37. U.S. Pat. No. 5,491,457 Issued Feb. 13, 1996: K. Feher: "F-Modulation Amplification" 38. U.S. Pat. No. 5,784,402 Issued Jul. 21, 1998: K. Feher: "FMOD Transceivers Including Continuous and Burst Operated TDMA, FDMA, Spread Spectrum CDMA, WCDMA and CSMA," 39. U.S. Pat. No. 6,445,749, Issued Sep. 3, 2002 K. Feher: "FMOD Transceivers Including Continuous and Burst Operated TDMA, FDMA, Spread Spectrum CDMA, WCDMA and CSMA," 40. U.S. Pat. No. 6,198,777 issued Mar. 6, 2001. K. Feher: "Feher Keying (FK) Modulation and Transceivers Including Clock Shaping Processors" 41. U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055 issued Sep. 3, 2002. K. Feher: "Spectrally efficient FQPSK, FGMSK, and FQAM for enhanced performance CDMA, TDMA, GSM, OFDN, and other systems". 42. U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348, K. Feher: "System and Method for Interoperable Multiple-Standard Modulation and Code Selectable Feher's GMSK, Enhanced GSM, CSMA, TDMA, OFDM, and other Third-Generation CDMA, WCDMA and B-CDMA" issued Dec. 16, 2003. 43. U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334 K. Feher: "Bit Rate Agile Third-Generation wireless CDMA, GSM, TDMA and OFDM System", issued Jun. 29, 2004.



CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS



44. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/205,478 K. Feher: "Modulation and Demodulation Format Selectable System", filed Jul. 24, 2002. Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/370,360 filed Aug. 9, 1999; and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055; 45. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/831,562 K. Feher: "Adaptive Receivers for Bit Rate Agile (BRA) and Modulation Demodulation (Modem) Format Selectable (MFS) Signals", Continuation of application Ser. No. 09/370,362 filed Aug. 9, 1999 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334. 46. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/831,724, filed on Apr. 24, 2004 K. Feher: "CDMA, W-CDMA, 3.sup.rd Generation Interoperable Modem Format Selectable (MFS) systems with GMSK modulated systems", [Continuation of Ser. No. 09/370,362 filed Aug. 9, 1999 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334]. 47. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/732,953 Pub. No.: 2001/0016013 Published Aug. 23, 2001 K. Feher: "Ultra Efficient Modulation and Transceivers" 48. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,279 filed: Dec. 28, 2004 Feher, K. "BROADBAND, ULTRA WIDEBAND AND ULTRA NARROWBAND RECONFIGURABLE INTEROPERABLE SYSTEMS", claiming benefits of Provisional Application "Ultra Wideband, Ultra Narrowband and Reconfigurable Interoperable Systems" 60/615,678 filed Oct. 5, 2004 49. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,254 filed: filed: Dec. 28, 2004; Feher, K. "DATA COMMUNICATION FOR WIRED AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION" 50. U.S. patent application No.: Ser. No. 11/102,896, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "HYBRID COMMUNICATION AND BROADCAST SYSTEMS" claiming benefits of Provisional Application "Ultra Wideband, Ultra Narrowband and Reconfigurable Interoperable Systems" 60/615,678 filed Oct. 5, 2004. submitted to the USPTO on Dec. 22, 2004 and filed by USPTO on Mar. 28, 2005. 51. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/105,295, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "OFDM, CDMA, SPREAD SPECTRUM, TDMA, CROSS-CORRELATED AND FILTERED MODULATION" a continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/205,478 and of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/370,360 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055. This application was Submitted to the USPTO on Apr. 11, 2005. 52. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,279, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "BROADBAND, ULTRA WIDEBAND AND ULTRA NARROWBAND RECONFIGURABLE INTEROPERABLE SYSTEMS", filed Dec. 28, 2004, United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) 53. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/102,896 Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "HYBRID COMMUNICATION AND BROADCAST SYSTEMS". submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Dec. 22, 2004; filed by USPTO on Mar. 28, 2005 54. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,254, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: and entitled "DATA COMMUNICATION FOR WIRED AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Dec. 22, 2004 55. U.S. patent reexamination application Ser. No. 90/007,305 of U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348 issued Dec. 16, 2003: "System and Method for Interoperable Multiple-Standard Modulation and Code Selectable Feher's GMSK, Enhanced GSM, CSMA, TDMA, OFDM, and other Third-Generation CDMA, WCDMA and B-CDMA". Parent patent application Ser. No. 09/370,361. Reexamination application filed on Nov. 19, 2004.



CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED CO-PENDING U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS



The following three (3) related U.S. patent applications, submitted by Applicant/Inventor Kamilo Feher, are co-pending: 56. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,610, Ref. No. (56), entitled "Location finder, tracker, communication and remote control system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005. 57. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,670, Ref. No. (57), entitled "Medical diagnostic and communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005. 58. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,609, Ref. No. (58), entitled "Multimode communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005.



CROSS REFERENCE TO PUBLICATIONS



59. 3GPP TS 25.213 V6.0.0 (2003-12)3.sup.rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network Spreading and Modulation (FDD) (Release 6) 28 pages 60. 3GPP TS 05.04 V8.4.0 (2001-11) Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Modulation (Release 1999); 3GPP: 3.sup.rd Generation Partnership Project; (10 pages) 61. Brown, C., Feher, K: "A reconfigurable modem for increased network capacity and video, voice, and data transmission over GSM PCS", IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, pp: 215-224; Volume: 6, No. 2, April 1996 (10 pages) 62. Brown, C. W.: "New Modulation and Digital Synchronization Techniques for Higher Capacity Mobile and Personal Communications Systems" Ph.D. Thesis University of California, Davis, Nov. 1, 1996 pp: i-vii; 138-190; 269-272; 288-289; 291. 63. Brown, C., Feher, K.: "A Flexible Modem Structure for Increased Network Capacity and Multimedia Transmission in GSM PCS", Proceedings of the Fifteenths Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies (INFOCOM '96), 1996 (8 pages) 64. Furuscar, A. et al.: "EDGE: Enhanced Data Rates for GSM and TDMA/136 Evolution" IEEE Personal Communications, June, 1999, pp: 56-66. 65. Qualcomm: "MSM 6275 Chipset Solution", Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, San Diego, Calif., 2004 (8 pages) 66. Qualcomm: "MSM 6300 Chipset Solution", Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, San Diego, Calif., 2004 (8 pages) 67. Baisa, N. "Designing wireless interfaces for patient monitoring equipment", RF Design Magazine April 2005, www.rfdesign.com (5 pages) 68. Hickling, R. M.: "New technology facilitates true software-defined radio" RF Design Magazine April 2005, www.rfdesign.com (5 pages) 69. Feher, K.: "Wireless Digital Communications: Modulation & Spread Spectrum Applications", Prentice Hall PTR, Upper Saddle River, N.J. 07458, Copyright 1995, Book ISBN No: 0-13-098617-8 (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. 164-177; 461-471; and 475-483) 70. Holma, H., Toskala, A.: "WCDMA for UMTS Radio Access for Third Generation Mobile Communications", Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons Ltd. Chichester, West Sussex, England, Copyright 2002, ISBN 0-470-84467-1 (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. xv-xvi; 1-4; 90-95; 199-201; and 235-236) 71. Tuttlebee, W.: "Software Defined Radio: Baseband Technology for 3G Handsets and Basestations", John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, West Sussex, England, Copyright 2004, ISBN 0-470-86770-1. (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. 1-3; 8-15; 34-39; and 274-279) 72. Dobkin, D. M. and Wandinger, T.: "A Radio Oriented Introduction to Radio Frequency Identification"--RFID Tutorial, High Frequency Electronics, June 2005, Copyright 2005 Summit Technical Media (6 pages) 73. Dale Setlak: "Fingerprint sensors in Wireless handsets" a presentation at the EOEM Design Expo Jun. 22, 2005, Wireless OEM Design Expo Online Conference & Exhibition, http://www.reedbusinessinteractive.com/eoem/index.asp (38 pages).



ACRONYMS



To facilitate comprehension of the current disclosure frequently used acronyms and or abbreviations used in the prior art and/or in the current disclosure are highlighted in the following LIST of acronyms: 2G Second generation or 2.sup.nd generation wireless or cellular system 3D three dimensional 3G Third Generation or 3.sup.rd generation wireless or cellular system 4G Fourth Generation wireless or cellular system 5G Fifth Generation or future generation AM Amplitude Modulation AMC Adaptive Modulation and Coding ACM Adaptive Coding and Modulation Bluetooth Wireless system standardized by the Bluetooth organization BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying BRA Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptive BST Base Station Transceiver BWA Broadband Wireless Access CC cross-correlation or cross-correlate CCOR cross-correlation or cross-correlate CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CM Clock Modulated CS Code Selectable CSMA Collision Sense Multiple Access CL Clock Shaped DECT Digital European Cordless Telecommunication DNA Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid DS-SS Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum EDGE Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution; Evolution of GSM or E-GSM EMI Electromagnetic Interference FA Frequency Agile (selectable or switched IF or RF frequency) FDM Frequency Division Multiplex FH-SS Frequency Hopped Spread Spectrum FQPSK Feher's QPSK or Feher's patented QPSK FOC Fiber Optic Communication FSK Frequency Shift Keying GFSK Gaussian Frequency Shift Keying GPS Global Positioning System GPRS General Packet Radio Service GMSK Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GSM Global Mobile System or Global System Mobile HDR Hybrid Defined Radio IEEE 802 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard Number 802 IR Infrared LAN Local Are Network LINA Linearly amplified or Linear amplifier or linearized amplifier LR Long Response MES Modulation Embodiment Selectable MFS Modulation Format Selectable MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output MISO Multiple Input Single Output MMIMO Multimode Multiple Input Multiple Output MSDR Multiple Software Defined Radio NLA Non-Linearly Amplified or Non-Linear Amplifier NQM non-quadrature modulation NonQUAD non-quadrature modulator NRZ Non Return to Zero OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex PDA Personal Digital Assistants PDD Position Determining Device PDE Position Determining Entity PTT push to talk QUAD Quadrature; also used for quadrature modulation quad Quadrature; also used for quadrature modulation QM Quadrature Modulation QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying RC Remote Control RFID Radio Frequency Identification Rx receive SDR Software Defined Radio (SDR) SIMO Single Input Multiple Output STCS Shaped Time Constrained Signal MSDR Multiple Software Defined Radio TBD to be decided TCS Time Constrained Signal TDM Time Division Multiplex TDMA Time Division Multiple Access TR transceiver (transmitter-receiver) Tx transmit TV television UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UNB Ultra narrowband or Ultra narrow band URC Universal Remote Control UWB Ultrawideband or ultra wideband UWN Ultrawideband-Ultra Narrow Band ViIP Video over Internet Protocol VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol W waveform, wavelet or wave (signal element) WAN Wide Area Network WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W-CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access Wi Fi Wireless Fidelity or related term used for systems such as IEEE 802.x_standardized systems; See also Wi-Fi Wi-Fi wireless fidelity WLAN Wireless Local Area Network www World Wide Web (or WWW or) WEB XCor cross-correlation or cross-correlator or cross-correlate



FIELD OF THE INVENTION



The field of the invention includes wired and wireless communication, broadcasting, entertainment, remote control, medical diagnostics, emergency and alarm, interactive touch screen, fingerprint controlled communication and control systems for single or multimode communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



The disclosed subject matter is for multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location finding based services and applications, remote control, wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, medical diagnostics devices, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control, interactive communication or control of communications and control systems, communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



BACKGROUND



Prior art references disclose position location, tracking and communication devices. Exemplary prior art includes: U.S. Pat. No. 6,865,395, U.S. Pat. No. 6,889,135, U.S. Pat. No. 6,879,584, U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,859, U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,310 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,842,617. From the prior art it is known that it is often desired, and sometimes necessary, to know the position, that is, the location of a wireless user. For example, the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has ordered an enhanced emergency 911 (emergency 911 or enhanced emergency E-911) wireless service that requires the location of a wireless terminal (e.g., a cellular phone) to be provided to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) each time a 911 call is made from the terminal. The recognized need for improved personal security and emergency response capability has been documented in the prior art. In situations where an individual is injured, lost, or abducted, immediate notification of an emergency situation including location of the emergency to a local law enforcement or emergency response organization is required to maintain the safety of the individual and to mitigate or avoid severe and or tragic situations.



In addition to emergency situations, there is also a recognized need for improved personal healthcare and in particular patient monitor and other diagnostic systems. Patients are often confined in a fixed area to cabled (or tethered) monitoring equipment. An illustrative, cited prior art reference, published by Baisa, N.: "Designing wireless interfaces for patient monitoring equipment", RF Design Magazine April 2005, highlights that recent advances in wireless technologies now make it possible to free patients from their equipment, allowing greater freedom and even making possible monitoring by their health provider while the patient is on the go. The position of a wireless terminal may be estimated using various techniques including "range-domain" and "position-domain" techniques as well as other techniques and/or combined hybrid techniques.



Acronyms and abbreviations: several terms, acronyms and abbreviations, used in literature, including patents, journal papers, conference publications, books, published standards and reports have the same and/or similar meaning as in the present application. In particular, terms acronyms and abbreviations, used in the prior art Feher et al. patents: U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055 (the '055 patent), U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348, U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334, U.S. Pat. No. 4,567,602 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,491,457 are often used in this document. To facilitate comprehension of some of the terms used in the prior art literature, parts of the prior art '055 patent are reviewed in this application. For other prior art terms, acronyms and abbreviations described in the cited references, the references contained in the cited references and other prior art material are applicable.



Position determining devices (PDD), also designated as position determining entities (PDE) and position determining transmitters mean devices and transmitters which generate and transmit signals used by receivers and receive processors for location or position determination and/or location or position estimation have been also described in the prior art.



Exemplary prior art single-chamber pacemaker and/or dual-chamber pacemaker and implantable cardiac stimulation devices are described in exemplary cited U.S. Pat. No. 6,539,253 and in U.S. Pat. No. 6,907,291.



SUMMARY AND NEED FOR THIS INVENTION



Multiuse wireless communication applications, having extended coverage, improved performance, seamless interoperability, high speed operation, enhanced capacity, multipurpose, multi functionality, multi-mode and multi-standard interoperability are highly desired. The current application discloses multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location finding based services and applications, remote control, wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, medical diagnostics devices, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control, interactive communication or control of communications and control systems, communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



Most multi-media and video services require bandwidths and or other multiuse capabilities that transcend the capabilities of currently operational second generation 2G and or third generation 3G cellular service providers. Hence, many wide bandwidth applications and services that are rapidly evolving, for example, on the Internet, have not to date readily and widely accessible cellular and cellular interconnections to mobile wireless users via wireless local area networks (WLAN) and/or other wideband networks. New systems and end user devices or units are being contemplated that provide for or include, respectively, high bandwidth short range networking capabilities, using WLAN technologies such as IEEE 802.x_ or Bluetooth. These links may allow mobile handsets to establish Internet attachments when they approach a network access point (NAP).



These WLAN based systems may create an opportunity for these untethered devices to enjoy high bandwidth services, once reserved for fixed devices. However, the WLAN systems only provide short range coverage, are not widely deployed, or do not provide for user mobility and hence are not generally suitable of providing enhanced services for mobile users over a wide area. It is desirable to develop multiuse, multi-mode, multi standard interoperable technologies which integrate the capabilities of cellular, infrared (IR), satellite, wide area network (WAN) and WLAN systems to provide complete end-to-end enhanced services. This can be achieved by modulation format selectable (MFS) and bit rate agile (BRA) multi-mode, multiuse interoperable systems. Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) systems and Wi-Fi embodiments are included and integrated with other implementation architectures in the current disclosure. The terms Wi-Fi or wireless fidelity or related terms, used in this application, are for systems such as IEEE 802.x_ standardized systems and are to be used generically when referring of any type of 802.11 network, whether IEEE 802.11b, 802.11a, 802.16, 802.20 dual-band, etc. The term Wi-Fi is also used as promulgated by the Wi-Fi Alliance and has also broader interpretations; alternative terms to Wi-Fi, such as UWB/W-USB, ZigBee, NFC and WiMax are also used and included in the embodiments of this invention.



Nowadays it is not unusual that in an individual has a cellular phone, a pager, about three or more remote control (RC) devices e.g. one or more RC for one or more television sets, for VCR for satellite channel TV set, garage opener, car opener, portable FM radio, video camcorder, computer, PDA, multiple cordless phones and other electronic devices. It is overwhelming just to keep track of all of these devices. Thus, consolidation or integration of many devices, units into one multipurpose or multiuse unit would be desirable.



To enable the implementation of efficient multiuse communication devices for single or multiple information signals and communications between and within multiple standardized and a multitude of non-standardized systems, between a large class of communication and control transmission-reception media, such as wireless (e.g. cellular, land mobile, satellite), cable, Fiber Optics Communication (FOC), internet, intranet and other media there is a need to have adaptable or agile systems and adaptable embodiment structures. Such structures including Intermediate Frequency (IF) and or Radio Frequency (RF) agile, Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptable (BRA), Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and or Modulation Embodiment Selectable (MES) systems are disclosed. The multiuse modulator-demodulator (modem) and or modulator and or demodulator implementations, disclosed in this application, have Intermediate Frequency (IF) and or Radio Frequency (RF) agile, that is IF adaptable and or RF adaptable embodiments. In IF and or RF adaptable or IF and or RF agile systems the center frequency of the modulated signal(s) is selectable and or adaptable to the desired transmission frequency band. The RF transmitter-receiver (transceiver) embodiments are also RF agile implementations. Several features of the multiuse embodiments are optional and are not included in some implementation structures. Some of these include the optional Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptable (BRA) structures and or RF agile implementations and or cross-correlated and or other structures and or features. There is a need for one or more of the modulators, in certain embodiments to have BRA and or Code Selectable and or MFS and or MES implementations. The term Modulation Format Selectable (MFS), as used in this application is defined to mean that the modulation technique (modulation format) is adaptable, changeable (selectable) and also that the coding technique, if coding is used in the system is also adaptable, changeable (selectable) in certain embodiments. In some disclosed embodiments the same modulation format and same bit rate is used, however the modulation embodiment is different. For example, in an application a GMSK modulated system uses a Quadrature Modulation (QM) structure for low transmit power applications, while for a high transmit power application it uses a non-quadrature modulation (NQM), e.g. polar implementation structure. Thus, in this example the same GMSK modulation format, having the same bit rate (or a different bit rate) is switched (or selected) to be transmitted instead in the QM embodiment in a NQM embodiment



The disclosed subject matter is for multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location based services and applications, location finding, tracking, single or multiple tracking, Remote Control (RC), Universal Remote Control (URC), wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, diagnostics units and systems, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid (DNA) systems, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control and or using DNA samples for interactive communication or control of certain communications and control systems, cardiac stimulation devices, systems having push to talk (PTT) options, interactive touch screen controlled communication and control systems for single or multimode communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



The presented implementations and embodiments are for single and multiple devices in single and multiple mode systems and networks. Location finding, tracking and identification of devices, including processing of certain measured parameters or diagnostics results (via sensors, such as motion detectors, body temperature, blood pressure or other devices) are communicated to devices and units which might be at central locations and or are peers of the monitored located device and are also mobile units, e.g. mobile telephones, mobile computers such as Personal Digital Assistants (PDA) or laptop computers, mobile entertainment or educational devices, or mobile navigational and interactive devices, or are units at fixed locations, e.g. wired telephones or computers. Interactive location based and educational and or entertainment devices and systems for mobile wireless and or wired media or internet web media information transfer and telematics and telemetry are also included. Regarding images, pictures and video and scanned or stored images and pictures three dimensional (3D) images are included in the communications units. Certain devices have incorporated touch screens for control or communication or interaction with the communication and or display devices.



Multimode, multiuse system operation, multi-purpose diagnostics, patient monitoring, multi purpose systems, including connections of multi mode devices to allow users communication and control with interoperable connected cellular Global Mobile System (GSM), Wireless-Fidelity (Wi-Fi) systems devices or phones to roam from wide area to local area wireless networks and vice versa, with location finder seamless operation and wired or internet web based monitoring signal processing implementations are presented. These systems, in certain applications are connected to cordless telephones and or other cordless devices. The term signal processing refers to signal and or data processing. This application includes multi operation and multi function of a plurality of embodiments of one or more of the following system components: single or multiple location finder, location tracker devices, position finder devices (note the terms "location finder", "location tracker" and "position finder" have in several parts of this disclosure practically the same meaning), Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), connected with single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation or Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) satellite and/or land based devices. These multiuse system components assembled in one or more combinations and variations, also known as "plug and play", are disclosed for operation in standardized systems, e.g. GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. While, prior art wireless short range systems such as the standardized Bluetooth system provide connection to cell phone systems the prior art short range systems do not provide connection to selectable enhanced performance multi-standard, multi-mode, Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and Bit Rate Selectable systems (also designated as Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems) and cascaded wireless, wired and Internet Protocol (IP) and embodiments, such as described and claimed in this invention. This application includes embodiments and architectures for more efficient implementation and of enhanced performance second generation (2G), third generation (3G), fourth generation (4G) and fifth generation (5G) and other new generations of wireless and broadcast, processing, storage, medical diagnostics-communications and control, interactive entertainment and educational and business systems with or without use of internet and/or multimedia systems. The terms 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G have a broad generic meaning and are not limited to certain specific standards. These terms are interpreted, within the new inventions disclosed herein, as new generation and or enhanced performance or more efficient implementation of prior art systems.



In addition to finding lost, runaway or kidnapped humans, lost, runaway or stolen pets/animals or objects, several medical applications for patient monitoring with multi-mode wireless, wired and internet systems are also disclosed in this application. For surgery, other medical procedures and medical patient monitoring and diagnostics, hybrid wired and wireless or purely wireless systems which reduce or eliminate the cables and wires attached to human body are also described. Video broadcasting, multicasting and video conferencing technologies, in conjunction with the aforementioned technologies are also disclosed. Language translators with written and audio converted text are presented. Voice recognition systems and fingerprint recognition transmission and activation methods are disclosed.



To remove or minimize cables for patient monitoring systems new architectures, structures and embodiments for multi mode, multi standard, non standardized wireless, wired, cabled, infrared, multiple "cascaded" switched and combined solutions and systems are presented in this disclosure. This include cascade of cellular i.e. GSM or GSM switched to CDMA systems, with short range wireless systems--one or multiple such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or other. Motivation for reducing the number of cables include, the desire to eliminate the cumbersome cables connected to the patient, facilitate the surgery, and facilitate and speed up the patient recovery--enabling the patient to move, exercise and improve the quality of life of the patient during surgery, recovery and post recovery monitoring and shorten emergency time response including a remote physician, nurse or other authorized health provider--in a reverse link to control--administer certain medical-pharmaceutical items, e.g. insulin or other; also to eliminate or reduce cable caused potentially harmful currents to the patient. The term reverse link means the link (signal flow) from the physician, nurse or other authorized health provider to the patient or patients medical device; the term forward link refers to the link from the patients medical device, e.g. from the cardiac stimulation device to the physician, nurse or other authorized health provider or health monitoring system.



The prior art pacemaker control requires magnet detection circuit for magnet controlled pacemaker parameters. Unfortunately this magnet dependent operation/change of parameters of pacemakers is in many cases causing difficulties and or even rendering impossible to have Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and/or Magnetic Resonance Image scanning on a patient who has a pace maker. Since MRI is a frequently desired diagnostic procedure for diagnostic purposes, even in an emergency where the information from the MRI scan could be life saving, and since MRI interferes with the correct operation of currently available magnetic detection-magnetic controlled based pacemakers, it would be highly desirable to develop a new generation of pacemakers which could be operated and controlled without substantial magnetic materials, i.e. without the need of magnet based detection and magnet control.



In distinction with the prior art magnet detection circuit, in the current invention there is no need for magnet detection circuits and no need for magnet's to be placed over or into the pacemaker to reset or modify parameters and functions/operation of the pacemaker. In the current invention magnetic detection and magnet control of pacemaker is replaced by wireless signal detection and based on the detected wireless signals and processing of said wireless detected signals (received from a physician operated wireless transmitter) control signals are generated to control the parameters and operation of the pacemaker.



Wireless systems authentication with fingerprint and or other means is also disclosed.



In this application the terms "multiuse" and or "multipurpose" mean that one or more of the aforementioned applications, systems, system architectures and or embodiments or combinations of the aforementioned system components are used.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES



FIG. 1 shows implementation structures for single and or multiple communications systems, including single and or multiple location or position finder systems, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), medical diagnostics, emergency and remote control systems.



FIG. 2 is a structure of a multi mode location and multi-mode communication system, including wireless, wired (or cabled) and internet-web based connections with single or multiple communication links and or communication transceivers (T/R) and or communication and control units.



FIG. 3 is a structure of a system having single or a plurality of selectable Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC), Terminal (Subscriber Unit) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) devices.



FIG. 4 shows embodiments and structures for systems and networks containing Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC) units, Terminal or Subscriber Unit (SU) and Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units.



FIG. 5 represents implementation architectures and structures for single or multiple receiver and single or multiple transmitter signals, including location or position finder signals, from one or more antennas.



FIG. 6 is represents a generic prior art transmitter and receiver (transceiver or T/R), disclosed in Feher's U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348 (the '348 patent).



FIG. 7 shows prior art cross-correlated signals, and in particular in-phase (I) and quadrature-phase (Q) signal patterns-displayed in the time domain.



FIG. 8 presents prior art measured cross-correlated in-phase (I) and quadrature-phase (Q) baseband signals of a GMSK modulator, with BTb=0.3, specified for GSM systems.



FIG. 9 shows Quadrature and Non Quadrature Architectures with one or more processors, and or single or multiple modulators and antennas.



FIG. 10 is a multiple BRA and MFS transmitter architecture with one or more processors, modulators and amplifiers, antennas and interface connection(s) to wired or cabled or other transmission media.



FIG. 11a is a new implementation architecture and block diagram of a multiple communication link, also designated as a cascaded link, or a system having cascaded units which inter operate in a sequence for multimode operated wireless and or wired and internet systems including fixed location systems and mobile systems.



FIG. 11b shows an exemplary prior art quadrature modulator.



FIG. 12 is an embodiment of an RF head end (alternatively designated as RF subsystem or RF part) which is co-located with the baseband and or Intermediate Frequency (IF) processing units, or is at a remote location.



FIG. 13 represents an alternative embodiment of a multi mode BRA and MFS system connected to single or multitude of wireless, wired, cabled or fiber optic communication (FOC) connected and or internet or mobile internet web based systems.



FIG. 14 is an embodiment of a multi-mode, multi bit rate system, with BRA, MFS and code selectable OFDM, WCDMA, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max, WLAN, infrared, Bluetooth and or other spread spectrum or continuous data systems.



FIG. 15 is an adaptive Radio Frequency (RF) wave generator, RF processor, radio and modulator structure.



FIG. 16 is a multimode, multipurpose system embodiment for numerous applications, including signal processing and storage, medical diagnostics, broadcasting entertainment, educational and alarm system for seamless adaptive communications, emergency reporting, location finding and remote control embodiments.



FIG. 17a is a Non-quadrature (non-QUAD) and quadrature modulation (Quad Mod or QUAD mod) multiple modulator embodiment, including polar modulator structures.



FIG. 17b shows a polar (non Quadrature) exemplary prior art modulator implementation block diagram.



FIG. 17c a Non-Quadrature (non-QUAD) exemplary prior art modulator architecture is illustrated.



FIG. 18 represents multi-mode location receiver connections to multi-mode or to single mode wireless transmitters.



FIG. 19 is a Software Defined Radio (SDR), Multiple SDR (MSDR) and Hybrid Defined Radio (HDR) transmitter and receiver embodiment, with single or multiple processors, single and or multiple RF amplifiers and antennas and single or multiple SDR and or non-SDR implementation architectures.



FIG. 20 shows interface and or processor units, set of modulators, amplifiers, selection devices and or combiner devices which provide RF signals to the transmission medium.



FIG. 21 is an embodiment of a single or multiple transmitter architecture using single or multiple transmitters; the multiple transmitter implementations are also designated as a diversity transmitter.



FIG. 22 shows a Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) system.



FIG. 23 is a Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO), Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO), and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO) embodiment having one or multiple RF interface points and or one or multitude of antennas.



FIG. 24 represents an antenna array implementing Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) and or Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO) and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO) communication, position finding and broadcasting transmission-reception system, including transmit antenna diversity and receive antenna diversity systems.



FIG. 25 shows Software Defined Radio (SDR) and Hybrid Defined Radio (HDR) systems for Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) and or Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO) and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO), including diversity systems.



FIG. 26 is an information monitoring processing and communication system. This system in certain application includes a patient monitor and diagnostic system.



FIG. 27 depicts a Universal System including one or multiple Remote Control or Universal Remote Control (URC) devices, including wired or wireless devices.



FIG. 28 shows a test and measurement instrumentation system within a wireless multi-mode system.



FIG. 29 is an implementation architecture of single or multiple cellular phones, or of other mobile devices, communicating with single or multiple Base Station Transceiver (BST) having single or plurality of antennas.



FIG. 30 represents an implantable cardiac stimulation device, a heart and a block diagram of a single-chamber and or a dual-chamber pacemaker with single or multiple wireless communications and control systems.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION AND OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS



In this section, the present invention is more fully described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the illustrated embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.



One or more devices (alternatively designated as units, elements, systems, terminals, devices, leads or connections) are optional in the embodiments. The elements may be interconnected and or used in various configurations. In the figures and relevant descriptions of the figures, as well as in the specifications of this disclosure, some of the units or elements are optional and are not required for certain applications, embodiments and or structures. In this document the term "signal" has the most generic meaning used in the prior art and includes electrical, acoustical, infrared, X-ray, fiber optics, light sound, position, altitude diagnostics, beat, density, and other sensor or device or human being or animal or object generated or processed waveforms, images, pictures, symbols, wavelets, wave shapes and analog or digital or "hybrid" analog and digital signals.



FIG. 1 shows implementation structures for single and or multiple communications systems, including single and or multiple location or position finder systems, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), medical diagnostics, emergency communication and remote control systems connected with single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation or Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) cellular, other mobile wireless, satellite and/or land based devices for Global Mobile System (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. In particular, FIG. 1 is an embodiment of interface units, processors, transmitters and receivers (also designated as transceivers or TR), single or multiple communication and or broadcast devices, location finder, location, position finder and tracking devices and processors, connected through selectors or combiners with single or multiple transceivers, communication systems entertainment devices, educational systems and or medical devices, e.g. patient monitor devices and or sensors connected to one or more communication systems. Interface Unit 1.1 is a device or part of a communication system and or part of location finder or location tracking or location positioning system or processor, for example part of a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or an interface to a GPS receiver or other location finder or tracking device or a sensor, signal detector and processor of acoustic (e.g. voice, sound, music) signals, video and/or visual and/or image signals (moving video, still photographs, X-Ray pictures, telemetry signals), temperature (e.g. human body temperature, animal's body temperature, temperature of an object), electrical signal, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID) received or generated signal, infrared, X-ray and or of other signals, parameters generated by sensors or obtained from any other sources. Unit 1.1 may contain sensors for heart beat, strength, pulse rate, glucose, arterial blood gas sensors, insulin sensors or monitors and or other medical devices. Unit 1.1 may also contain sensors and medical apparatus or devices connected to a patient during a surgery, or post surgery for patient monitoring. Unit 1.1 may contain only one of the mentioned elements, or more of the aforementioned elements. Unit 1.1 may contain certain combinations and/or variations of the devices described in this section. In some other embodiments Unit 1.1 is a simple interface unit to connect signals from a signal source and or from multiple sources to and or from the communication medium. The term "signal source" or "source" includes a broad class of signal sources, signal processors and or signal generators, including speech, audio, video, picture, display, data storage, information processors and other devices which generate, contain or process signals. Implementation of interface Unit 1.1 consists of a connection device (such as a wire or cable or part of circuit or connection to an antenna or an electronic or acoustical or infrared or laser coupler or connector, or an electronic or electrical circuit) or a combination of one or more devices. Interface Unit 1.1 may be a simple interface for video or television (TV), or digital camera (digital photo camera or digicam) signals or interface unit for a sequence of images or other visual signals such as photographs, scanned images or processors or devices of visual signals and or stored and programmable music--such as contained in prior art portable music players or integrated prior art MP3 players, with or without prior art Windows Mobile smart-phone software, computer, entertainment, games, interactive video games with or without location finders, location finders with or without radio FM/AM or digital radio or other radio or television broadcast signals. In one of the implementations Unit 1.1 contains the web or WEB or the World Wide Web, shortly web or www, Mobile Web access from mobile devices. Unit 1.1 contains in some of the embodiments a push to talk (PTT) processor. The signal or plurality of different type of signals is connected to one or more transceivers (TR) contained in Unit 1.2. The term transceiver refers to one or multiple transmitters and receivers and also to one or multiple receivers and transmitters. Specifically, the TR, Unit 1.2 may include one or multiple entire transceivers or could consist of one or multiple receivers or one or multiple transmitters. Unit 1.2 (also designated as Element 1.2 or Device 1.2) could be one or multiple Bluetooth (BT), infrared (IR), other wireless, e.g. satellite or cable, or wired transceiver(s), or part of a transceiver(s). Unit 1.3 is a signal splitter or signal selector device or connection which selects or combines and connects the Element 1.2 provided signals (one or more signals) to one or more communication systems or subsystems contained in communicator devices Unit 1.4, Unit 1.5, and Unit 1.6. The communicator devices Unit 1.4, Unit 1.5, and Unit 1.6 are parts or entire GSM, CDMA or Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) or other wired, cabled or wireless devices respectively. Systems components in Unit 1.6, designated as "OFDM or other", are assembled in one or more combinations and variations, also known as "plug and play" and are for operation in single or multiple standardized systems, e.g. GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. One or more of the FIG. 1 components could be Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and or Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems. Signal selector or signal combiner Unit 1.7 provides the selected or combined signals to one or plurality antennas, shown as Unit 1.8a or other signal interface units which provide the selected or combined signals to the wireless or wired, or cabled, or internet medium, such as web (or WEB) or www, represented by Unit 1.8b. Single or plurality of signals are received on single or multiple antennas 1.11a and or on single or multiple interface points 1.11b and are provided to Splitter or switch Unit 1.12 for connecting one or more of the received signal(s) to communication devices, Unit 1.13, Unit 1.14, and/or Unit 1.15, respectively. Unit 1.15 is the receiver section of the transmitted signals of Unit 1.6, designated as OFDM or other. In other embodiments Unit 1.15 is receiver section of other signals, such as OFDM, infrared, WI-Fi, TDMA, FDMA, telemetry WLAN, WMAN, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, or other signals or a combination of one or more of such signals. Signal selector or signal combiner Unit 1.16, provides one or multiple signals to interface or processor Unit 1.17. In some of the implementations, structures and architectures Units 1.6 and Unit 1.15 contain one or more of the following devices: interface devices, processors, modulators, demodulators, transmitters, receivers, splitters, combiners for one or more of OFDM, infrared, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, TDMA, FDMA, FDM, telemetry, RFID, WLAN, MLAN, cellular systems, cable, wireless web, wireless internet or other wired or internet systems.



In the transmitter part, shown in the upper part of FIG. 1, and also in the receiver part, illustrated in the lower part of FIG. 1, the selection or combing of signals is under the control of processors and or programs and/or manual control. The selection or combing of signals is not shown in FIG. 1. Interface and or processor Unit 1.17 interfaces to and or processes one or more of the received signals and may provide control signals to the receiver and also to the transmitter. Block arrows Unit 1.9 and Unit 1.10 designate signal and control path and or physical connections for processing and/or control of parts of the elements shown in FIG. 1.



FIG. 2 is a structure of a multi mode location and multi-mode communication system, including wireless, wired (or cabled) and internet-web based connections with single or multiple communication links and or communication transceivers (T/R) and or communication and control units. One or more antennas Unit 2.1, Unit 2.2, Unit 2.3 and Unit 2.4, transmit or receive one or more signals. On block arrow Unit 2.5 one or more other signals are connected to the or from the single or multiple transceivers. Unit 2.6 is an interface unit or single or multiple transceivers connected to the signal transmission or signal reception medium. The signals from or to Unit 2.6 are connected with the single or multiple communication link, Unit 2.8. Interface Unit 2.17 through connections 2.16, 2.18, 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and communication and control Unit 2.10 process signals and provide communication and control signals from or to antenna Units 2.11, 2.12, 2.13, 2.14, interface Unit 2.15, interface connection Unit 2.17, antenna Units 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and interface connection Unit 2.5. All antenna units and connections 2.5 and connections 2.15 provide duplex (bi directional) signal transfers. Units 2.6 and 2.8 are in "cascade", i.e. they are connected to each other in a sequence. Communication and Control Unit 2.10 may also operate in cascade with one or more of Unit 2.6 or 2.8. In other embodiments, one or more of the units, shown in FIG. 2, are connected in parallel or a star or mesh network, or other configurations.



FIG. 3 is a structure of a system having single or a plurality of selectable Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC), Terminal (Subscriber Unit) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) devices. While the cited prior art, such as Riley's U.S. Pat. No. 6,865,395 Ref. 8, Qualcomm CDMA Technologies' MSM 6275 and Qualcomm CDMA Technologies' MSM 6300 chipset solution Ref. 65 and Ref. 66 disclose system and network operations of PDE, BSC, BTS and subscriber units, the prior art does not disclose nor anticipate the structures and connections of multi-mode, multi-purpose MFS systems operated in cascaded and or parallel, star or mesh configurations, selectable single or multiple single structures such as disclosed and claimed in this application. The term cascaded or cascade refers to units or devices operated in a sequence or in parallel with each others. FIG. 3 includes processing of Receiver or Location Finder Signals, e.g. GPS signals and or land line and or web-internet information signals and it includes Transmit Section of Multiple Communicator Devices. Elements (also designated as Units or Devices) 3.8, 3.9, 3.11, 3.14, 3.16 and 3.18 are single or multiple antennas which receive and or transmit signals from to a Position Determining Entity (PDE) transmitter or to one or more Base Station Transceivers (BTS) devices and/or to subscriber units, including peer to peer direct communication between subscribers. In some of the implementations transmitters of PDE signals include one or more satellite systems, such as GPS satellites, cellular base stations, wireless base stations or other wireless transmitters such as cellular phones PDA wireless transmitters, Remote Control (RC) transmitters, infrared or any other transmitters. Units 3.1 and 3.3 are interface units and or front end ports respectively, for reception of the PDE signals from the antennas, from infrared transmitters, from laser transmitters and or from wired connections or from the internet. Wired connections include fiber optics, copper, cable and any other connection. In some embodiments the Position Determining Entity (PDE) front end is a Remote Front end while in other cases it is co-located with the entire receiver. Units 3.2 and 3.4 are one or a plurality of Base Station Controller (BSC) units, designated as units BSC-1 to BSC-N. The BSC units control signals of the Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units 3.7, 3.10, 3.12, 3.13, 3.15 and 3.17. Signal reception and or signal processing and or signal transmission by the antenna units or sets of antenna units 3.8, 3.9, 3.11, 3.14, 3.16 and or 3.18 is controlled by one or more BSC units or by controller devices located in the Base Station Transceivers (BTS), or by control devices located outside of these units.



FIG. 4 shows embodiments and structures for systems and networks containing Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE), also designated as Position Determining Device (PDD), location tracker, location finder or position finder devices, Base Station Controller (BSC) units and Terminal or Subscriber Unit (SU) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units. Remote Control (RC), Universal Remote Control (URC), wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems and communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, diagnostics units and systems, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid (DNA) systems, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control and or using DNA samples for interactive communication or control of certain communications and control systems and systems having push to talk (PTT) options are included in some of the embodiments. Each unit may contain interface unit and or processor unit, memory, communication port, single or multiple modulator or transmitter(s) and single or multiple receivers and or demodulators with or without single or multiple switching selection devices and/or signal combining and splitting devices. Communications, telematics, telemetry, video broadcasting and or point to point video transmission, transmission of audio and or data and or video to mobile units is embodied by the implementation of single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation format and or multimode Modulation Format Selectable (MFS), single bit rate and or multiple bit rate and or Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems, such as enhanced performance or new features, new applications and new embodiment based GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems, disclosed in this application. Units 4.1, 4.3 and 4.5 contain single or Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE) devices, while Units 4.2, 4.4 and 4.6 are single or multiple BTS devices. Units 4.7, 4.8 and 4.9 are single or multiple transmit and or receive or transmit/receive antennas embodied as single band or multiple band antenna systems. Units 4.14, 4.16 and 4.18 are terminals, also designated as subscriber units (SU). In certain implementations the SU contain the PDE or position finder or location finder or location tracker unit, or RFID units. The BTS devices or BTS units communicate directly with the SC devices (units); in other applications some SC units communicate with other SC units without the use of BTS devices (also designated as BTS units). Block arrows 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 show communication links between BTS, PDE and SC units and combinations of units, without the need to have all units in the network.



FIG. 5 represents implementation architectures and structures for single or multiple receiver and single or multiple transmitter signals, including location or position finder signals, e.g. wireless signals, cellular signals, GPS signals received from one or more satellites or from one or more ground (terrestrial) based single or plurality of antennas, Units 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.15 and 5.16 or land line or world wide web (www) signals received by connections or interface units 5.4 and 5.14 which interface and or receive signals from Transmit Section of Multiple Communicator Devices. Multiple Position Determining Entity (MPDE) is also designated as Position Determining Device (PDD). The Position Determining Entity (PDE) ports/units 5.5 and 5.17, in certain cases are part of the entire receivers while in other cases are implemented at separate locations from other parts of the receivers and designated as remote RF front ends. In addition to the PDE ports, other units of the receiver are located at remote locations, from the subsequent parts of the receivers. Units 5.1 to 5.23 constitute parts of two receivers. Each unit is optional and not all units are required for the operation of the system. Units 5.6 and 5.18 are Band Pass Filter (BPF), Units 5.7 and 5.19 are amplifiers, Units 5.8 and 5.20 are signal multipliers (also known as mixers) for signal down conversion and Units 5.9 and 5.21 are frequency synthesizers or oscillators which provide signals to the mixers. Units 5.10, 5.22 and 5.11, 5.23 are demodulators and signal processors which provide, through an optional signal combiner or signal selector, Unit 5.12, demodulated and processed single or multiple output signals to connection lead 5.13. In direct radio frequency (RF) to baseband conversion receivers, or any other direct conversion receivers, including certain Software Defined Radio (SDR) implementations several aforementioned units are not used in the implementations. Units 5.24 to 5.40 are elements or devices of single or plurality of transmit sections of one or more transmitters of one or more communicator devices. Software Defined Radio (SDR) systems concepts, principles, SDR architectures and SDR technologies have been described in the prior art, including in the cited reference book Tuttlebee, W.: "Software Define

PatentNumber=7804765,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The systems and methods of this invention generally relate to communication systems. In particular, the systems and methods of this invention relate to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) communication systems, methods and protocols.



2. Description of Related Art



The IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards for wireless LANs, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, herein after referred to as 803.11a/g, specify wireless local area network communication systems in the 5 GHz and 2.4 GHz bands. These standards specify the use of OFDM as the modulation method used for communication. OFDM is a multicarrier modulation scheme that performs well in wireless communication channels. The 802.11a/g standards provide data rates of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbps. Different data rates are achieved by transmitting different, but constant, numbers of bits on all carriers in the multicarrier system and by operating at different coding rates. Table 1 below illustrates the coding rate and bits per subcarrier for each data rate for an exemplary 802.11a/g transceiver.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 DATARATE Bits per Subcarrier (Mbps) Coding Rate (R) (N_BPSC) 6 1/2 1 9 3/4 1 12 1/2 2 18 3/4 2 24 1/2 4 36 3/4 4 48 2/3 6 54 3/4 6



In order to determine the appropriate transmission data rate, the 802.11a/g transmitter uses a trial and error method of transmitting at various data rates, starting with, for example, the highest or last successful transmission rate, and waits for a positive acknowledgement indication from the receiver that the packet was successfully received. This simple positive acknowledgment indication method is used to optimize communications in conventional 802.11a based wireless systems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and methods of this invention use messages transmitted between a receiver and a transmitter to maximize the communication data rate. In particular, and in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a multicarrier modulation system uses messages that are sent from the receiver to the transmitter to exchange optimized communication parameters. The transmitter then stores these communication parameters and when transmitting to that particular receiver, the transmitter utilizes the stored parameters in an effort to maximize the data rate to that receiver. Likewise, when the receiver receives packets from that particular transmitter, the receiver can utilize the stored communication parameters for reception.



Accordingly, aspects of the invention relate to multicarrier modulation communication systems.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communication systems that transmit messages between transceivers.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to transmitting messages between a plurality of transceivers in an effort to optimize a data communication rate.



Further aspects of the invention relate to exchanging optimized communication parameters between a plurality of receivers in a multicarrier modulation system.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to exchanging communication parameters between a plurality of transceivers in a wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communications network to regulate the data rate between the transceivers.



These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or apparent from, the following detailed description of the embodiments.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The embodiments of the invention will be described in detailed, with reference to the following figures, wherein:



FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram illustrating an exemplary communication system according to this invention;



FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the components of a first and a second transceiver according to this invention;



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary communication method according to this invention;



FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary extended signal field according to this invention;



FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary communication system according to this invention; and



FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary transceiver in accordance with the second exemplary embodiment of this invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and the methods of this invention will be described in relation to a multicarrier modulation communication system. However, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention, the following description omits well-known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized. For the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein. For example, the systems and methods of this invention can generally be applied to any type of communications system including wired communication systems, wireless communication systems, such as wireless LANs, power line communication systems, wired or wireless telephone line communication systems, or any combination thereof.



Furthermore, while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the communication system collocated, it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network and/or the Internet, or within a dedicated multicarrier modulation system. Thus, it should be appreciated that the components of the communication system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network. It will be appreciated from the following description, and for reasons of computational efficiency, that the components of the communications system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system.



Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links, or any combination thereof, or any other known or later developed element(s) that is capable of supplying and/or communicating information to and from the connected elements. Additionally, the term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element.



Additionally, while this invention will be described in the relation to multicarrier modulation systems, the systems and methods of this invention can be applied to any communication system or transport protocol for transmitting information.



FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary communication system 1. Communication system 1 comprises one or more stations 10 and an access point (AP) 20. This exemplary embodiment illustrates a wireless LAN where a plurality of stations 10 communication with the access point 20. In particular, in its exemplary wireless LAN, multiple stations 10 share a common communication medium. One possible configuration includes an access point 20 that is used to communicate between the stations 10 (BSS). The access point 20 provides the local relay functionality between the stations 10 and to, for example, other wired and/or wireless networks (not shown). Therefore, when station 1 communicates with station 2, the communication, e.g., a packet, is sent from station 1 to the access point 20, and then from the access point 20 to station 2. For this reason, inmost cases a station 10 is only transmitting packets to the access point 20 and receiving packets from the access point 20. The access point 20 on the other hand, must communicate with all the stations 10 in the network.



Another possible configuration does not rely on an access point 20, but instead communications take place directly between the stations 10 (IBSS) in the network illustrated by the dashed lines in FIG. 1. In this embodiment, where communications occur directly between the stations 10, there are no relay functions served by the access point 20.



In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the wireless network relies on communicating parameters between a plurality of transceivers and in particular from a receiver to a transmitter. These parameters are stored at the transmitter and are used for subsequent transmission of packets to the receiver the parameters were received from. Thus, the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well whether the network is configured to have an access point 20, or not, as each station, including the access point, if used, maintains tables comprising the communication parameters.



Several different types of communication parameters can be sent from the receiver to the transmitter to optimize communication to, for example, increase or decrease the data rate. In general, any parameter that can modify performance can be included in the message. The following examples are the more common types of communication parameters that can be exchanged between the receiver and the transmitter.



The Bit Allocation Table (BAT)--the bit allocation table in multicarrier modulation systems specify the number of bits modulated on each carrier, which are also referred to as subchannels, subcarriers, tones or bins, in a multicarrier modulation system. The 802.11a/g transceivers use the same number of bits on all subchannels, which is the simplest type of bit allocation table. Since wireless communications experience multipath, the communications channel is not flat in frequency, which means that different subcarriers will have different signal to noise ratios (SNRs). Therefore, in order to achieve a constant bit error rate (BER) on all carriers, a bit allocation table is used so that carriers with a higher SNR modulate more bits than carriers with a lower SNR. This process is often referred to as "bit loading." Bit loading and the use of a bit allocation table has been used in ADSL multicarrier communication systems for years. For example, ITU standards G.992.1 and G.992.2, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are international ADSL standards that specify communication using bit loading and bit allocation tables. Bit loading also enables using constellation sizes much higher than 64 QAM (6 bit) which is the maximum constellation size of standard 802.11a/g systems. Bit loading constellations that modulate up to 15 bits, or more, can be used, if supported by the channel, thereby achieving significant data rate improvements.



Coded modulation parameters--systems that use coded modulation techniques, such as trellis coded modulation and turbo coded modulation, achieve much higher coding advantages than systems that do not combine modulation and forward error correction encoding. However, coded modulation schemes do not encode all information bits and therefore coded modulation must be combined with bit loading in multipath channels in order to achieve the coding gain benefits.



Variable cyclic prefix length--the cyclic prefix (CP) is used in multicarrier systems to combat multipath. In general, as long as the impulse response of the channel is less than the CP length, there will be no inter-symbol interference (ISI) or inter-channel (ICI) interference due to the channel multipath. However, since the CP is a redundant cyclic extension added to every communication symbol, the CP also results in a data rate loss. The 802.11a/g standards use a fixed CP with a length of 0.8 microseconds, which is 20% of the symbol length. Therefore, the addition of the CP results in a 20% data rate reduction. This is a good tradeoff if the channel is approximately the same length as a CP. However, if the channel is much shorter, e.g., only 0.1 microseconds, then it makes sense to decrease the CP length to 0.1 microseconds in order to get a 19% data rate improvement. Likewise, if the channel is much longer than 0.8 microseconds, the CP should be extended to match the length of the channel because significant levels of ISI and ICI will probably greatly reduce the achievable data rate.



Variable pilot tone allocation--standard 802.11a/g receivers use four fixed pilot tones that are spread across the transmission frequency band. This is necessary in 802.11a/g systems since the transmitter does not know which portions of the frequency bands are in deep nulls due to multipath. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the receiver can communicate to the transmitter which carrier should be used for pilot tones. Since the receiver can determine which carriers have a high SNR, the receiver can instruct the transmitter to place pilot tones on those high SNR carriers. In fact, in many cases, a single high SNR carrier is sufficient to be used for all timing recovery requirements thereby allowing the system to transmit data on the three carriers that the 802.11a/g systems use for pilot tones. This also provides a data rate increase when compared to standard 802.11a/g systems.



Alternatively, the communication system may not have any carriers dedicated as pilot tones, i.e., all carriers that are modulated are modulated with information bits. In this case, a carrier that carries information bits may be used to perform "decision-directed" timing recovery algorithms. For example, a carrier that is used for this type of decision-directed algorithm will often carry fewer bits than actually possible at the specified BER in order to provide a reference signal with a high SNR.



Fine gains per carrier--Fine gains are used in ADSL standards such as G.992.1 to equalize the BER across all the carriers when bit loading is used. Fine gains are small adjustments in the transmit power level that enable a subchannel to achieve the BER required by the system based on the specific measure of SNR.



Throughout the following discussion, exemplary embodiments of this invention will be directed toward the bit allocation tables (BATs) as the primary optimized communication parameter that is being exchanged between the stations. This is done because the use of BATs is one of the most effective ways to achieve optimized communication and to modify data rates. However, it is to be appreciated that other communication parameters including, but not limited to, fine gains, trellis coded modulation, pilot tone location, variable cyclic prefix length, and the like, can also be exchanged, with or without BATs, between stations to realize a change in data rate.



To implement a change in data rates, a message containing the communication parameters is sent from a receiver to a transmitter. These communication parameters can be communicated in a plurality of ways. For example, the communication parameters can be sent to the transmitter as part of a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, after receiving the positive acknowledgment packet, the transmitter would use the communication parameters contained in the positive acknowledgment packet for the transmission of subsequent packets. The communication parameters could also be sent, for example, as part of a management or data frame that is intended to communicate information between the transceivers. For example, the communication parameters could be sent as part of an extended header field of any packet sent between the transceivers.



The exemplary embodiment of the protocol used for exchanging communication parameters in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 1 and 2. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary network 1, such as a wireless network. The network 1 comprises a plurality of stations 10 interconnected by a plurality of links and an access point 20. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the components associated with a first and a second transceiver, e.g., the stations 10 or the access point 20. In particular, the first transceiver 100 comprises a message determination module 110, a communication parameter determination module 120, a packet determination module 130, a transmitter 140, a receiver 150, a memory 160, and a controller 170, all connected by a link (not shown). The second transceiver 200 comprises a message determination module 210, a communication parameter determination module 220, a packet determination module 230, a transmitter 240, a receiver 250, a memory 260, and a controller 270, all connected by a link (not shown).



For ease of illustration the exemplary method used for the high rate OFDM communication systems will be discussed in relation to a first transceiver sending packets to a second transceiver. For example, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver the access point 20. Alternatively, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver, station 1, or the like. The relevant portion of the protocol commences with the first transceiver sending a packet at one of a highest possible data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps for 802.11a/g, at the data rate of the last successful transmission, or at a known data rate.



Specifically, the packet determination module 130, in cooperation with the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170 coordinate the transmission of this first packet, i.e., before any optimized communication parameters are exchanged, and transmit the packet using standard size fixed communication parameter settings such as those specified in IEEE 802.11a/g, e.g., fixed six bits per tone on all carriers.



Next, if the second transceiver's receiver 250 successfully receives the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet again with the cooperation of the packet determination modulation 230, the transmitter 240, the memory 260 and the controller 270. This positive acknowledgment packet also comprises optimized communication parameters determined by the communication parameter determination module 220 to be used by the second transceiver 200 for subsequent reception of packets from the first transceiver 100. For example, the positive acknowledgment packet may contain a BAT with different bits per subcarrier based on, for example, the channel characteristics as measured by the second transceiver 200 and determined by the communication parameter determination module 220. Alternatively, or in addition, this acknowledgment packet may also indicate any of the optimized transmission parameters described above, e.g., which one or more carriers should be used as pilot tones as discussed above.



If the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 does not return to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, the first transceiver 100, again in cooperation with the packet determination module 130, the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170, sends a packet at the next highest or another known standard data rate.



If the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment packet, the first transceiver 100, in cooperation with memory 160 stores the optimized communication parameters. The first transceiver 100 then uses the stored communication parameters for transmission of subsequent packets to the second transceiver 200. The use of the optimized communication parameters is indicated in the header field of the packet sent from the first transceiver 100 to the second transceiver 200. For example, the message determination module 110 modifies the header field to indicate which optimized communication parameters are being used.



The second transceiver's receiver 250 receives the packet from the first transceiver 100 and determines which communication parameters were used based on the information in the data field of the packet. This is accomplished by, for example, decoding the header field of the packet that indicates that optimized communication parameters are being used. The packet can then be demodulated and decoded based on the information contained in the data field in association with the message determination/decoded module 210 using the optimized communication parameters that were sent from the second transceiver to the first transceiver in the previous positive acknowledgement packet.



After the second transceiver 200 receives from the first transceiver 100 the packet which has the header field specifying which optimize communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 sends a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. This positive acknowledgment may contain the same parameters as used for the last successful received packet as an indication to the second transceiver 200 to continue transmitting with the stored optimized communication parameters. Equivalently, the positive acknowledgment may be just a basic acknowledgment packet, as in conventional 802.11a/g systems, to indicate that the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver and communication should continue using the same optimized communication parameters. In the event that optimized communication parameters accompany every positive acknowledgement during an extended communication session, this mechanism effectively tracks



Alternatively, the second transceiver 200 may send a new, second set of optimized communication parameters in the acknowledgment message. These new parameters could, for example, request a change in data rate, such as a higher data rate. In this case, the first transceiver 100 could start using the second set of optimized communication parameters for transmission after receiving the acknowledgment packet.



In the case where the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet transmitted by the first transceiver 100 that has the modified header field specifying which communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 will not send a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. In this case, the first transceiver 100 would determine that the optimized communication parameters are no longer valid and will start the protocol all over again by going back to the first step were the first transceiver 100 will commence communication at a known data rate, such as the highest data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps in 802.11a/g systems, using the fixed/standard communication parameters.



In the case were the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment from the second transceiver 200 after transmitting a packet using the first set of optimized parameters, and this positive acknowledgment contains a new, second set of optimized parameters, these new parameters should be used for subsequent transmission of packets. However, if the second transceiver 200 does not receive a positive acknowledgment packet after sending a packet using the second set of optimize parameters, then the second transceiver 200 reverts back to the first step of the protocol were a packet is sent at a known e.g., next highest data. However, in this case, the first transceiver may start by transmitting using the first set of optimized communication parameters or by transmitting at a data rate using a fixed/standard communication parameter, e.g., 54 Mbps in the 802.11a/g standard.



Alternatively, or further in addition, the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 may periodically send "reference" or "training" packets that can be used by the receiver portion of the transceiver in conjunction with the communication parameter determination module to determine the optimized transmission parameters. For example, these training packets can be packets that contain signals that are known to the transceivers in advance. For example, the training packets can be non-information carrying packets that are sent during times when there is no data to be sent between the stations and the network. Since these packets are predefined and known to the receiver prior to reception, the receivers can use them to accurately measure the effects of the channel, such as the multipath profile, the SNR per carrier, or the like. These training packets can also be used to train receiver equalizers that are used to equalize, for example, the wireless channel and/or receiver filters and/or transmitter filters.



In conventional wireless LAN systems, every packet contains a header field that indicates the data rate used for transmitting the data field of the packet. The header field is transmitted using a fixed modulation/encoding scheme, such as in the 802.11a/g standard, and therefore can be demodulated by all stations. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header field will also indicate whether optimized communication parameters were used for transmitting the data field in the packet. This could be done in several ways. For example, the header field could contain the indication of the data rate as in 802.11a/g. Alternatively, the header field could contain a bit field that indicates whether the optimized communication parameters are to be used. This bit field could be a single bit that indicates either to use the last exchanged optimized communication parameters, or one of the standard fixed communication parameters. Alternatively, the bit field could be a plurality of bits indicating one of a plurality of sets of optimized communication parameters.



In the example of a network with a access point 20, each station transmitter would store optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. These optimized parameters would be generated by the access point 20 receiver and sent to the station(s) as described above. Obviously, since each station 10 is in a different location, and could possibly move, each station transmitter would probably have different optimized parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. The access point 20 must also store these optimized parameters to be used by the access point 20 receiver when receiving packets from the various stations 10. For each station 10, the access point 20 may have a different set of optimize parameters. Since the access point 20 receives packets from all stations, the access point 20 must be able to determine the parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. The access point 20 can use the packet header to determine whether the optimized parameters have been used, but since the access point 20 does not know which station actually sent the packet, the access point 20 may not be able to determine the correct parameters based on the header alone.



Accordingly, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header also includes a bit field that indicates which station sent the packet. In this case, the access point 20 would use that information to determine which set of parameters should be used. Alternatively, the access point 20 may use other measures to determine which station sent the packet. For example, the access point 20 could use the power of the received signal, the channel estimate based on frequency equalizer taps, carrier offset values, or the like.



In the example of a network, such as a wireless LAN, with an access point 20, the access point transmitter would store the optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to a specific station 10. These optimized communication parameters would be generated by the station receiver and sent to the access point 20 as described above. Obviously, since each station is in a different location, the access point 20 could have a plurality of sets of different optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the different stations 10. Each station 10 would then also store the optimize communication parameters corresponding to that station to be used by the station receiver when receiving packets from the access point 20. Each station 10 should also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., SIGNAL field. Therefore, each station 10 uses the packet header to determine whether the optimized communication parameters have been used. Unlike the access point receiver, each station receiver is intended to receive packets only from the access point 20 and therefore a station 10 may be able to determine the communication parameters based on the header alone.



Since all stations will receive packets from the access point 20, each station must also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the preamble and the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. Obviously, if the packet is not intended for a particular station receiver, the receiver may use the incorrect optimized communication parameters to receive a packet. This is actually not a problem since the packet was not intended for that receiver in the first place. However, since the protocol requires transmitters to defer to communications already in progress, every station must be able to determine various protocol counters based on the packet duration. The header must provide a way to determine the packet duration even if use of the wrong communication parameters does not permit the receiver to correctly decode the message.



As discussed above, once the receiving transceiver determines the optimized transmission parameters, the receiving transceiver needs to send this information to the transmitting transceiver to be used for subsequent communication between the two devices. Furthermore, as discuss above, the optimized transmission information can be sent as part of an acknowledgment packet. Alternatively, or in addition, the optimized transmission parameters can be exchanged as part of a management frame or regular information carrying frame on a periodic or, for example, triggered basis. In either case, the optimized transmission parameters can be sent as part of an extended packet header field, also known as the SIGNAL field, or as part of the packet information field. In the case of an extended packet header field, the information is sent at a fixed rate and can be decoded by all systems in the network. For example, a bit in the packet header field can be used to indicate that a new set of optimized transmission parameters has been appended to an extended packet header field.



In the latter case, the information can be sent using optimized parameters for communication. Note that in this case the optimized transmission parameters that are used for transmitting the optimized transmission parameter information from the receiver to the transmitter are not the same. For example, assume that the receiver of the first transceiver 150 determines optimized transmission information for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The first transceiver's transmitter 140 sends a packet to the second transceiver's receiver 250 where the packet contains the optimized transmission parameters for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The packet that is sent from the first transceiver's transmitter 140 to the second transceiver's receiver 250 may be sent using a standard fixed rate, as is done in conventional 802.11a/g systems, or may be sent using optimized transmission parameters communicated between the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200. Obviously, the optimized transmission parameters used for transmission from the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 would have been exchanged earlier in the communications session.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating a general exemplary method of exchanging communication parameters according to this invention. Specifically, control begins in step S100 and continues to step S110. In step S110, a first transceiver (designated T1) determines and sends a packet that is at least one of a known, highest, last successful or changed rate to a second transceiver (designated T2). Next, in step S120, a determination is made whether the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver. If the packet was not successfully received, control jumps to step S130. Otherwise, control continues to step S140.



In step S130, the communication parameters specifying the data rate are incremented/decremented as appropriate. Control then continues back to step S110.



In step S140, the second transceiver returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment that may or may not comprise optimized communication parameters. If the positive acknowledgement contains optimized communication parameters, the second transceiver stores these parameters. Next, in step S150, the first transceiver receives the acknowledgment. Then, in step S160, the first transceiver stores the optimized communication parameters if the positive acknowledgment returned from the second transceiver contains communication parameters. Control then continues to step S170.



In step S170, the first transceiver determines a header field. Next, in step S180, the first transceiver commences communication using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S190, a determination is made whether the second transceiver received the packet. If the packet was received, control continues to step S200. Otherwise, control jumps to step S130.



In step S200, the second transceiver decodes the header field and determines the communication parameters that were used. Next, in step S210, the second transceiver demodulates and decodes the data field using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S220, the second transceiver determines the acknowledgment to return to the first transceiver. Control then continues to step S230.



In step S230, the second transceiver sends the acknowledgment to the first transceiver. This message may or may not contain optimized communication parameters. Control then continues to step S240 where the control sequence ends.



The basic concepts discussed above can also be extended to legacy systems. In the following discussion, stations that only implement the current 802.11a/g standard will be referred to as legacy stations. Stations that are enabled with the methods of this invention to provide high data rate communications with optimized communication parameters will be referred to as extended rate (ER) stations. The method and protocols that enable exchanging, transmitting and receiving using these optimized communication parameters are referred to as extended rate systems and protocols. In this exemplary embodiment, an extended rate station also supports the current 802.11a/g standard.



For example, FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary communication system 500 that comprises a plurality of extended rate stations 510, 520, one or more legacy stations 530 and, for example, an access point 540.



When operating in an environment with legacy stations 530 and extended rate stations 510, 520 there are two main interoperability requirements to ensure network stability. First, a legacy station 530 must be able to receive the ER packet header (SIGNAL field) and use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will guarantee that the legacy station 530 will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



Secondly, an extended rate station 510, 520 must be able to determine the transmission parameters e.g., the bit allocation table, based on an extended rate packet header if the packet is intended for that station. In addition, an extended rate station that was not intended to receive the packet must also use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will ensure that the extended rate station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



In an effort to ensure the two above requirements are met, FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary modified packet header using an extended signal field. In this illustrative 802.11a example, the SIGNAL field is extended. The first part of the extended SIGNAL field has a structure identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field header. The first symbol of the extended SIGNAL field is modulated according to the SIGNAL modulation encoding parameters as specified in IEEE 802.11a for the standard SIGNAL field, i.e., 6 Mbps BPSK, code rate=1/2. Therefore, a legacy station can correctly receive the signal field bits from the first part of the extended SIGNAL field.



The second part of the extended signal field in the next symbol contains the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) station identifiers. These extended signal field bits are also modulated using the 802.11a 6 Mbps, code rate=1/2 modulation method. In FIG. 4, these extended signal field bits are sent in the second symbol of the extended signal field header that corresponds to the data symbol number one in a standard 802.11a system.



Since there are both legacy and extended rate stations in the exemplary communication system 500 illustrated in FIG. 5, an extended rate station needs to be able to determine and identify when a received packet contains an extended signal field header, which is contained in two symbols, as opposed to a standard 802.11a header, which contained in only one symbol. This can be accomplished by setting a bit in the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field. This bit will be referred to as the ER-enable bit. As an example, the 802.11a reserved bit between the rate field and the length field can be used as the ER-enable bit. For example, when this reserved bit (R) is set to 1, this indicates that an extended rate header is being used. When the reserved bit (R) is set to 0, this indicates that a standard 802.11a header is being used.



Again with reference to FIG. 5, two ER stations 510 and 520 are illustrated along with a legacy station 530 and an extended rate access point 540. The various links in FIG. 5 represent, for example, the communication paths of an extended rate packet where the ER-enable bit (R) is flagged in the reserved bit R position and the TX/RX STA ID (Transmitter/Receiver Station Identifier) is present in the extended SIGNAL field.



The exemplary communications that occur between the various stations will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 5 and 6. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates the exemplary components that could be present in a station illustrated in FIG. 5. In particular, the station 600 comprises a message determination module 610, a communication parameter determination module 620, a packet determination module 630, an ER detection module 640, a station ID decoder/encoder 650, a receiver 660, a transmitter 670, a memory 680 and a controller 690. Many of the components illustrated in the station 600 are comparable to those seen in the first transceiver 100 and second transceiver 200. Accordingly, the functions of those components will not be re-discussed in association with this embodiment of the invention.



Communication path 1: Transmission of packets from the access point 540 to a ER capable station, such as ER station 510.



The access point 540 forwards to the ER station 510 a packet. The ER station 510 detects the ER-enable bit with the cooperation of the ER detection module 640 and determines that the packet is an ER packet.



Next, the station ID decoder/encoder 650 decodes the RX STA ID bits and the extended header field to determine if the received packet is intended for this particular station. The ER station 510 also decodes the TX STA ID in the extended rate header with the cooperation of the station ID decoder/encoder 650 and determines if this packet is coming from the access point 540. Based on this information, the receiving extended rate station 510 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving the packets from the access point 540. The extended rate station 510 uses the optimize parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., the data field, of the packet. Naturally, the RX station had sent these optimized communication parameters to the AP earlier in the session.



Communication Path 2: Another ER-capable station, e.g., station 520, accidentally receives a packet from the access point (AP) 540.



The station 520, in cooperation with the ER detection module 640, detects the ER-enable bit in the packet sent from the access point 540, and determines that the packet is an ER packet and, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field and determines that the received packet is not intended for this particular station. The station 520 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field, as discussed below.



Since the station 520 determines that the received packet is not intended for itself, the station 520 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when a packet is received, a station can detect very early whether it is the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet if it is not. This will, for example, save power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power required to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore, for example, the station may go into a low power mode.



Communication Path 3: The legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from the access point (AP) 540.



Legacy stations in general are not aware of ER packet headers. Therefore, the legacy station 530 will correctly decode the first part of the ER packet which is contained in the first symbol of the header field and is identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field, except for the ER-enable bit which the legacy station 530 should ignore since it is reserved.



The legacy station 530 sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE/LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below allowing correct legacy operation of the 802.11a medium occupancy algorithms. Using the spoofed RATE and LENGTH information, the legacy station 530 will incorrectly demodulate the data symbols, since the station does not know the optimized communication parameters, until eventually a CRC error will cause the packet to be ignored.



Communication Path 4: Transmission of packets from an ER-capable station 510 to an access point (AP) 540.



The access point (AP) 540 detects the ER-enable bit, determines the received packet is an ER packet and decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field to determine if the packet is intended for itself. The access point 540 also decodes the TX STA ID in the ER header and determines which station has transmitted the packet. Based on this information, the access point 540 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving packets from that particular transmitter station. The access point 540 then uses the optimized parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., DATA Field, of the packet. Of course, the access point 540 had sent the optimized communication parameters to the transmitter station earlier in the communications session.



Communication Path 5: Another ER-capable station 520 accidentally receives a packet originating from ER station 510.



The station 510 detects the ER-enable bit, with the cooperation of the ER detection module, determines this is an ER packet and decodes, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, the RX ST ID bits in the extended header field to determine that the packet is not intended for itself. The station 510 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below. Since the station 510 knows that this packet is not intended for itself, the station 510 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when this happens, a station can detect very early that it is not the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet. This will save, for example, power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore the station may, for example, go into the low power mode.



Communication Path 6: Legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from an ER-enabled station 510.



This scenario produces the same results as illustrated in relation to communication path 3.



"Spoofing" the RATE and LENGTH Field.



When a legacy station receives an ER packet, such as in communication paths 3 and 6, the legacy station must be able to determine the duration of the packet, i.e., the time required for packet transmission, based on the standard 802.11a header contained in the first symbol of the ER packet header, which every station can correctly decode. Thus, for the legacy station, R1-R4 bits, which do not have any meaning to the ER-capable RX STA, must be set to one of the legitimate patterns used in the 802.11a standard, shown in Table 1. Additionally, the LENGTH field must be filled in conjunction with the RATE field in a way that the required time for packet transmission that the legacy RX STA would calculate based on the "spoofed" RATE and LENGTH parameters would coincide with the one that is needed by the ER RX STA using optimized communication parameters. This will guarantee that the legacy station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so the accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



A ER-capable RX STA will also exploit the spoofed RATE, LENGTH information shown in the SIGNAL field when the packet is not intended for its reception, such as in cases 2 and 5. Once the ER-capable RX STA recognizes that the reserved bit R is turned on, the ER-capable RX STA examines the extended SIGNAL symbol and, based on the RX STA ID, determines that this packet is not intended for itself. Based on the `spoofed` RATE and LENGTH information in the SIGNAL Field, the RX STA sets the counters related with virtual carrier sense algorithm in exactly the same manner as the legacy station and may then enter the power saving mode.



As an example, the ER data rate is 108 Mbps, which is twice the maximum data rate (54 Mbps) of conventional 802.11a systems. This may be achieved by, for example, bit loading and using trellis coded modulation. A system transmitting at 108 Mbps will have 432 data bits per symbol. Therefore, transmitting a packet with, for example, 864 bytes will require 864*8/432=16 symbols. In addition, the ER protocol requires an extra symbol in the ER header, as compared to standard 802.11a systems, that contains the TX and RX Station IDs. Therefore, the transmission of an 864 byte packet requires 16+1=17 symbols at 108 Mbps. In order to allow legacy 802.11a stations to correctly determine the NAV, the RATE and LENGTH Fields of the ER header need to be set so that the legacy station will also determine that 17 symbols are needed for transmission of the packet. Therefore, for example, the RATE and LENGTH fields could be set to RATE=54 Mbps and LENGTH=459 bytes. In this case, since 54 Mbps results in 216 data bits per symbol, the legacy station would determine the packet duration to be 459*8/216=17 symbols and correctly set the NAV. Obviously other RATE and LENGTH combinations can be used from the 802.11a standard to enable the legacy station to correctly set the NAV. For example, RATE=6 Mbps and LENGTH=51 bytes would also result in a packet whose data field is 17 symbols long.



In the example described above, the extended header field only contained the RX and TX STA IDs. This implies that there is only one set of optimized parameters for each TX/RX communication. In an alternative embodiment, the extended header field also, or alternatively, contains an indication of which one of a plurality of optimized communication parameters sets is to be used for transmission and reception of a packet. These parameter sets are sent from the receiver station to the transmitter station and stored in each.



The above-described communication system can be implemented on wired or wireless telecommunications devices, such a modem, a multicarrier modem, a DSL modem, an ADSL modem, an XDSL modem, a VDSL modem, a multicarrier transceiver, wired or wireless wide/local area network system, or the like, or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device. Additionally, the systems, methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element(s), an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hard-wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, modem, transmitter/receiver, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts illustrated herein can be used to implement the various communication methods according to this invention.



Furthermore, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object-oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively, the disclosed communication system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and/or efficiency requirements of the system, the particular function, and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The communication systems, methods and protocols illustrated herein however can be readily implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and telecommunications arts.



Moreover, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software executed on programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor, or the like. In these instances, the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA.RTM. or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system, or the like. The communication system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems of a communications transceiver.



It is therefore apparent that there has been provided, in accordance with the present invention, systems and methods for exchanging communication parameters. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

PatentNumber=7805143,CITED REFERENCES



PARTIAL LIST OF RELEVANT LITERATURE



Several references, including issued United States patents, pending US patents, and other references are identified herein to assist the reader in understanding the context in which the invention is made, some of the distinctions of the inventive structures and methods over that which was known prior to the invention, and advantages of this new invention, the entire contents of which being incorporated herein by reference. This list is intended to be illustrative rather than exhaustive.



All publications including patents, pending patents, documents, published papers, articles and reports contained, listed or cited in these mentioned publications and/or in this disclosure-patent/invention are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each publication or report, or patent or pending patent and/or references listed in these publications, reports, patents or pending patents were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.



CROSS REFERENCE TO U.S. PATENTS



The following referenced documents contain subject matter related to that disclosed in the current disclosure: 1. U.S. Pat. No. 6,907,291 issued Jun. 14, 2005, Snell et al.: "Secure telemetry system and method for an implantable cardiac stimulation device", assigned to Pacesetter, Inc., Sylmar, Calif. 2. U.S. Pat. No. 6,906,996 issued Jun. 14, 2005, Ballantyne, G. J.: "Multiple modulation wireless transmitter" 3. U.S. Pat. No. 6,889,135 issued May 3, 2005, Curatolo, B. S. et al.: "Security and tracking system" 4. U.S. Pat. No. 6,879,842 issued Apr. 12, 2005, King, J. et al.: "Foldable Wireless Communication Device Functioning as a Cellular Telephone and Personal Digital Assistant" 5. U.S. Pat. No. 6,879,584 issued Apr. 12, 2005, Thro et al.: "Communication services through multiple service providers" 6. U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,859 issued Apr. 5, 2005 Anderson, R. J. et al.: "Method for Estimating TDOA and FDOA in a Wireless Location System" 7. U.S. Pat. No. 6,876,310 issued Apr. 5, 2005, Dunstan, R. A.: "Method and apparatus to locate a device in a dwelling or other enclosed space" 8. U.S. Pat. No. 6,865,395 issued Mar. 8, 2005, Riley, W.: "Area based position determination for terminals in a wireless network" 9. U.S. Pat. No. 6,842,617 issued Jan. 11, 2005, Williams B. G.: "Wireless Communication Device with Multiple External Communication Links" 10. U.S. Pat. No. 6,823,181 issued Nov. 23, 2004, Kohno et al.: "Universal platform for software defined radio" 11. U.S. Pat. No. 6,807,564 issued Apr. 12, 2005, Zellner et al.: "Panic button IP device" 12. U.S. Pat. No. 6,788,946 issued Sep. 7, 2004 Winchell, D. et al.: "Systems and Methods for Delivering Information within a Group of Communication System" 13. U.S. Pat. No. 6,741,187 issued May 25, 2004, Flick, K.: "Vehicle tracker providing vehicle alarm alert features and related methods" 14. U.S. Pat. No. 6,711,440 issued Mar. 23, 2004, Deal et al.: "MRI-compatible medical device with passive generation of optical sensing signals" issued to Biophan Technologies, Inc. 15. U.S. Pat. No. 6,424,867 issued Jul. 23, 2002, Snell et al.: "Secure telemetry system and method for an implantable cardiac stimulation device", assigned to Pacesetter, Inc., Sylmar, Calif. 16. U.S. Pat. No. 6,393,294 issued May 21, 2002 Perez-Breva et al.: "Location determination using RF fingerprinting" 17. U.S. Pat. No. 6,067,018 issued May 23, 2000 Skelton et al.: "Lost Pet Notification System" 18. U.S. Pat. No. 6,591,084 issued Jul. 8, 2003, Chuprun, et al.: "Satellite based data transfer and delivery system" 19. U.S. Pat. No. 6,772,063 Ihara et al.: "Navigation Device, Digital Map Display System, Digital Map Displaying Method in Navigation Device, and Program", Issued Aug. 3, 2004. 20. U.S. Pat. No. 6,775,254 Willenegger et al.: "Method and Apparatus for Multiplexing High Speed Packet Data Transmission with Voice/Data Transmission", Issued Aug. 10, 2004. 21. U.S. Pat. No. 6,748,021 Daly, N.: "Cellular radio communications system" Issued Jun. 8, 2004. 22. U.S. Pat. No. 6,775,371 Elsey et al.: "Technique for Effectively Providing Concierge-Like Services in a Directory Assistance System", issued Aug. 10, 2004. 23. U.S. Pat. No. 6,539,253 Thompson et al.: "Implantable medical device incorporating integrated circuit notch filters", issued Mar. 25, 2003 24. U.S. Pat. No. 6,418,324 Doviak, et al.: "Apparatus and method for transparent wireless communication between a remote device and host system", Jul. 9, 2002 25. U.S. Pat. No. 6,128,330 Schilling; D. L.: "Efficient shadow reduction antenna system for spread spectrum", issued Oct. 3, 2000. 26. U.S. Pat. No. 6,101,224, Lindoff et al.: "Method-apparatus for linearly modulated signal using polar modulation" issued on Aug. 8, 2000 27. U.S. Pat. No. 6,088,585 Schmitt, J. C., and Setlak; D. R.: "Portable telecommunication device including a fingerprint sensor and related methods", issued on Jul. 11, 2000. 28. U.S. Pat. No. 5,479,448, Seshadri, N.: "Method and Apparatus for Providing Antenna Diversity", issued on Dec. 26, 1995 29. U.S. Pat. No. 5,430,416, issued on Jul. 4, 1995 Black et al.: "Power amplifier having nested amplitude modulation controller and phase modulation controller" 30. U.S. Pat. No. 4,745,628, McDavid et al.: "Symbol Generator for Phase Modulated Systems" issued on May 17, 1988 31. U.S. Pat. No. 3,944,926, Feher, K.: "Timing Technique for NRZ Data Signals", issued Mar. 16, 1976. 32. U.S. Pat. No. 4,339,724, Feher, K.: "Filter" issued Jul. 13, 1982. 33. U.S. Pat. No. 4,720,839, Feher et al.: "Efficiency Data Transmission Techniques", issued Jan. 19, 1988. 34. U.S. Pat. No. 4,350,879 Feher, K.: "Time Jitter Determining Apparatus", issued Sep. 21, 1982. 35. U.S. Pat. No. 4,567,602 S. Kato, K. Feher: "Correlated Signal Processor", issued Jan. 28, 1986. 36. U.S. Pat. No. 4,644,565 issued Feb. 17, 1987. J. Seo, K. Feher: "Superposed Quadrature Modulated Baseband Signal Processor" 37. U.S. Pat. No. 5,491,457 Issued Feb. 13, 1996: K. Feher: "F-Modulation Amplification" 38. U.S. Pat. No. 5,784,402 Issued Jul. 21, 1998: K. Feher: "FMOD Transceivers Including Continuous and Burst Operated TDMA, FDMA, Spread Spectrum CDMA, WCDMA and CSMA," 39. U.S. Pat. No. 6,445,749, Issued Sep. 3, 2002 K. Feher: "FMOD Transceivers Including Continuous and Burst Operated TDMA, FDMA, Spread Spectrum CDMA, WCDMA and CSMA," 40. U.S. Pat. No. 6,198,777 issued Mar. 6, 2001. K. Feher: "Feher Keying (FK) Modulation and Transceivers Including Clock Shaping Processors" 41. U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055 issued Sep. 3, 2002. K. Feher: "Spectrally efficient FQPSK, FGMSK, and FQAM for enhanced performance CDMA, TDMA, GSM, OFDN, and other systems". 42. U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348, K. Feher: "System and Method for Interoperable Multiple-Standard Modulation and Code Selectable Feher's GMSK, Enhanced GSM, CSMA, TDMA, OF DM, and other Third-Generation CDMA, WCDMA and B-CDMA" issued Dec. 16, 2003. 43. U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334 K. Feher: "Bit Rate Agile Third-Generation wireless CDMA, GSM, TDMA and OFDM System", issued Jun. 29, 2004.



CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS



44. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/205,478 K. Feher: "Modulation and Demodulation Format Selectable System", filed Jul. 24, 2002. Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/370,360 filed Aug. 9, 1999; and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055; 45. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/831,562 K. Feher: "Adaptive Receivers for Bit Rate Agile (BRA) and Modulation Demodulation (Modem) Format Selectable (MFS) Signals", Continuation of application Ser. No. 09/370,362 filed Aug. 9.1999 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334. 46. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/831,724, filed on Apr. 24, 2004 K. Feher: "CDMA, W-CDMA, 3.sup.rd Generation Interoperable Modem Format Selectable (MFS) systems with GMSK modulated systems", [Continuation of Ser. No. 09/370,362 filed Aug. 9.1999 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6,757,334]. 47. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/732,953 Pub. No.: 2001/0016013 Published Aug. 23, 2001 K. Feher: "Ultra Efficient Modulation and Transceivers" 48. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,279 filed: Dec. 28, 2004 Feher, K. "BROADBAND, ULTRA WIDEBAND AND ULTRA NARROWBAND RECONFIGURABLE INTEROPERABLE SYSTEMS", claiming benefits of Provisional Application "Ultra Wideband, Ultra Narrowband and Reconfigurable Interoperable Systems" 60/615,678 filed Oct. 5, 2004 49. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,254 filed: filed: Dec. 28, 2004; Feher, K. "DATA COMMUNICATION FOR WIRED AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION" 50. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/102,896, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "HYBRID COMMUNICATION AND BROADCAST SYSTEMS" claiming benefits of Provisional Application "Ultra Wideband, Ultra Narrowband and Reconfigurable Interoperable Systems" 60/615,678 filed Oct. 5, 2004. submitted to the USPTO on. Dec. 22, 2004 and filed by USPTO on Mar. 28, 2005. 51. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/105,295, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "OFDM, CDMA, SPREAD SPECTRUM, TDMA, CROSS-CORRELATED AND FILTERED MODULATION" a continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/205,478 and of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/370,360 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055. This application was Submitted to the USPTO on Apr. 11, 2005. 52. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,279, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "BROADBAND, ULTRA WIDEBAND AND ULTRA NARROWBAND RECONFIGURABLE INTEROPERABLE SYSTEMS", filed Dec. 28, 2004, United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) 53. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/102,896 Applicant Feher, K., entitled: "HYBRID COMMUNICATION AND BROADCAST SYSTEMS". submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Dec. 22, 2004; filed by USPTO on Mar. 28, 2005 54. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/023,254, Applicant Feher, K., entitled: and entitled "DATA COMMUNICATION FOR WIRED AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Dec. 22, 2004 55. U.S. patent reexamination application Ser. No. 90/007,305 of U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348 issued Dec. 16, 2003: "System and Method for Interoperable Multiple-Standard Modulation and Code Selectable Feher's GMSK, Enhanced GSM, CSMA, TDMA, OFDM, and other Third-Generation CDMA, WCDMA and B-CDMA". Parent patent application Ser. No. 09/370,361. Reexamination application filed on Nov. 19, 2004



CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED CO-PENDING U.S. PATENT APPLICATIONS



The following three (3) related U.S. patent applications, submitted by Applicant/Inventor Kamilo Feher, are co-pending: 56. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,610, Ref. No. (56), entitled "Location finder, tracker, communication and remote control system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005. 57. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,670, Ref. No. (57), entitled "Medical diagnostic and communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005. 58. U.S. utility patent application Ser. No. 11/197,609, Ref. No. (58), entitled "Multimode communication system", submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) on Aug. 3, 2005.



CROSS REFERENCE TO PUBLICATIONS



59. 3GPP TS 25.213 V6.0.0 (2003-12) 3.sup.rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network Spreading and Modulation (FDD) (Release 6) 28 pages 60. 3GPP TS 05.04 V8.4.0 (2001-11) Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Modulation (Release 1999); 3GPP: 3.sup.rd Generation Partnership Project; (10 pages) 61. Brown, C., Feher, K: "A reconfigurable modem for increased network capacity and video, voice, and data transmission over GSM PCS", IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, pp: 215-224; Volume: 6, No. 2, April 1996 (10 pages) 62. Brown, C. W.: "New Modulation and Digital Synchronization Techniques for Higher Capacity Mobile and Personal Communications Systems" Ph.D. Thesis University of California, Davis, Nov. 1, 1996 pp: i-vii; 138-190; 269-272; 288-289; 291. 63. Brown, C., Feher, K.: "A Flexible Modem Structure for Increased Network Capacity and Multimedia Transmission in GSM PCS", Proceedings of the Fifteenths Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies (INFOCOM '96), 1996 (8 pages) 64. Furuscar, A. et al.: "EDGE: Enhanced Data Rates for GSM and TDMA/136 Evolution" IEEE Personal Communications, June, 1999, pp: 56-66. 65. Qualcomm: "MSM 6275 Chipset Solution", Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, San Diego, Calif., 2004 (8 pages) 66. Qualcomm: "MSM 6300 Chipset Solution", Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, San Diego, Calif., 2004 (8 pages) 67. Baisa, N. "Designing wireless interfaces for patient monitoring equipment", RF Design Magazine April 2005, www.rfdesign.com (5 pages) 68. Hickling, R. M.: "New technology facilitates true software-defined radio" RF Design Magazine April 2005, www.rfdesign.com (5 pages) 69. Feher, K.: "Wireless Digital Communications: Modulation & Spread Spectrum Applications", Prentice Hall PTR, Upper Saddle River, N.J. 07458, Copyright 1995, Book ISBN No: 0-13-098617-8 (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. 164-177; 461-471; and 475-483) 70. Holma, H., Toskala, A.: "WCDMA for UMTS Radio Access for Third Generation Mobile Communications", Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons Ltd. Chichester, West Sussex, England, Copyright 2002, ISBN 0-470-84467-1 (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. xv-xvi; 1-4; 90-95; 199-201; and 235-236) 71. Tuttlebee, W.: "Software Defined Radio: Baseband Technology for 3G Handsets and Basestations", John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, West Sussex, England, Copyright 2004, ISBN 0-470-86770-1. (pages: front page; copyright page; pp. 1-3; 8-15; 34-39; and 274-279) 72. Dobkin, D. M. and Wandinger, T.: "A Radio Oriented Introduction to Radio Frequency Identification"--RFID Tutorial, High Frequency Electronics, June 2005, Copyright 2005 Summit Technical Media (6 pages) 73. Dale Setlak: "Fingerprint sensors in Wireless handsets" a presentation at the EOEM Design Expo Jun. 22, 2005, Wireless OEM Design Expo Online Conference & Exhibition, http://www.reedbusinessinteractive.com/eoem/index.asp (38 pages)



Acronyms



To facilitate comprehension of the current disclosure frequently used acronyms and or abbreviations used in the prior art and/or in the current disclosure are highlighted in the following LIST of acronyms: 2G Second generation or 2.sup.nd generation wireless or cellular system 3D three dimensional 3G Third Generation or 3.sup.rd generation wireless or cellular system 4G Fourth Generation wireless or cellular system 5G Fifth Generation or future generation AM Amplitude Modulation AMC Adaptive Modulation and Coding ACM Adaptive Coding and Modulation Bluetooth Wireless system standardized by the Bluetooth organization BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying BRA Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptive BST Base Station Transceiver BWA Broadband Wireless Access CC cross-correlation or cross-correlate CCOR cross-correlation or cross-correlate CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CM Clock Modulated CS Code Selectable CSMA Collision Sense Multiple Access CL Clock Shaped DECT Digital European Cordless Telecommunication DNA Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid DS-SS Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum EDGE Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution; Evolution of GSM or E-GSM EMI Electromagnetic Interference FA Frequency Agile (selectable or switched IF or RF frequency) FDM Frequency Division Multiplex FH-SS Frequency Hopped Spread Spectrum FQPSK Feher's QPSK or Feher's patented QPSK FOC Fiber Optic Communication FSK Frequency Shift Keying GFSK Gaussian Frequency Shift Keying GPS Global Positioning System GPRS General Packet Radio Service GMSK Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GSM Global Mobile System or Global System Mobile HDR Hybrid Defined Radio IEEE 802 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standard Number 802 IR Infrared LAN Local Are Network LINA Linearly amplified or Linear amplifier or linearized amplifier LR Long Response MES Modulation Embodiment Selectable MFS Modulation Format Selectable MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output MISO Multiple Input Single Output MMIMO Multimode Multiple Input Multiple Output MSDR Multiple Software Defined Radio NLA Non-Linearly Amplified or Non-Linear Amplifier NQM non-quadrature modulation NonQUAD non-quadrature modulator NRZ Non Return to Zero OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access PDA Personal Digital Assistants PDD Position Determining Device PDE Position Determining Entity PTT push to talk QUAD Quadrature; also used for quadrature modulation quad Quadrature; also used for quadrature modulation QM Quadrature Modulation QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying RC Remote Control RFID Radio Frequency Identification Rx receive SDR Software Defined Radio (SDR) SIMO Single Input Multiple Output STCS Shaped Time Constrained Signal MSDR Multiple Software Defined Radio TBD to be decided TCS Time Constrained Signal TDM Time Division Multiplex TDMA Time Division Multiple Access TR transceiver (transmitter-receiver) Tx transmit TV television UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UNB Ultra narrowband or Ultra narrow band URC Universal Remote Control UWB Ultrawideband or ultra wideband UWN Ultrawideband-Ultra Narrow Band VuIP Video over Internet Protocol VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol W waveform, wavelet or wave (signal element) WAN Wide Area Network WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W-CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access Wi Fi Wireless Fidelity or related term used for systems such as IEEE 802.x_ standardized systems; See also Wi-Fi Wi-Fi wireless fidelity WLAN Wireless Local Area Network www World Wide Web (or WWW or) WEB XCor cross-correlation or cross-correlator or cross-correlate



FIELD OF THE INVENTION



The field of the invention includes wired and wireless communication, broadcasting, entertainment, remote control, medical diagnostics, emergency and alarm, interactive touch screen, fingerprint controlled communication and control systems for single or multimode communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



The disclosed subject matter is for multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location finding based services and applications, remote control, wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, medical diagnostics devices, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control, interactive communication or control of communications and control systems, communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



BACKGROUND



Prior art references disclose position location, tracking and communication devices. Exemplary prior art includes: U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,865,395, 6,889,135, 6,879,584, 6,876,859, 6,876,310 and 6,842,617. From the prior art it is known that it is often desired, and sometimes necessary, to know the position, that is, the location of a wireless user. For example, the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has ordered an enhanced emergency 911 (emergency 911 or enhanced emergency E-911) wireless service that requires the location of a wireless terminal (e.g., a cellular phone) to be provided to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) each time a 911 call is made from the terminal. The recognized need for improved personal security and emergency response capability has been documented in the prior art. In situations where an individual is injured, lost, or abducted, immediate notification of an emergency situation including location of the emergency to a local law enforcement or emergency response organization is required to maintain the safety of the individual and to mitigate or avoid severe and or tragic situations.



In addition to emergency situations, there is also a recognized need for improved personal healthcare and in particular patient monitor and other diagnostic systems. Patients are often confined in a fixed area to cabled (or tethered) monitoring equipment. An illustrative, cited prior art reference, published by Baisa, N.: "Designing wireless interfaces for patient monitoring equipment", RF Design Magazine April 2005, highlights that recent advances in wireless technologies now make it possible to free patients from their equipment, allowing greater freedom and even making possible monitoring by their health provider while the patient is on the go. The position of a wireless terminal may be estimated using various techniques including "range-domain" and "position-domain" techniques as well as other techniques and/or combined hybrid techniques.



Acronyms and abbreviations: several terms, acronyms and abbreviations, used in literature, including patents, journal papers, conference publications, books, published standards and reports have the same and/or similar meaning as in the present application. In particular, terms acronyms and abbreviations, used in the prior art Feher et al. patents: U.S. Pat. No. 6,470,055 (the '055 patent), U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,665,348, 6,757,334, 4,567,602 and 5,491,457 are often used in this document. To facilitate comprehension of some of the terms used in the prior art literature, parts of the prior art '055 patent are reviewed in this application. For other prior art terms, acronyms and abbreviations described in the cited references, the references contained in the cited references and other prior art material are applicable.



Position determining devices (PDD), also designated as position determining entities (PDE) and position determining transmitters mean devices and transmitters which generate and transmit signals used by receivers and receive processors for location or position determination and/or location or position estimation have been also described in the prior art.



Exemplary prior art single-chamber pacemaker and/or dual-chamber pacemaker and implantable cardiac stimulation devices are described in exemplary cited U.S. Pat. No. 6,539,253 and in U.S. Pat. No. 6,907,291.



SUMMARY AND NEED FOR THIS INVENTION



Multiuse wireless communication applications, having extended coverage, improved performance, seamless interoperability, high speed operation, enhanced capacity, multipurpose, multi functionality, multi-mode and multi-standard interoperability are highly desired. The current application discloses multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location finding based services and applications, remote control, wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, medical diagnostics devices, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control, interactive communication or control of communications and control systems, communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



Most multi-media and video services require bandwidths and or other multiuse capabilities that transcend the capabilities of currently operational second generation 2G and or third generation 3G cellular service providers. Hence, many wide bandwidth applications and services that are rapidly evolving, for example, on the Internet, have not to date readily and widely accessible cellular and cellular interconnections to mobile wireless users via wireless local area networks (WLAN) and/or other wideband networks. New systems and end user devices or units are being contemplated that provide for or include, respectively, high bandwidth short range networking capabilities, using WLAN technologies such as IEEE 802.x_ or Bluetooth. These links may allow mobile handsets to establish internet attachments when they approach a network access point (NAP). These WLAN based systems may create an opportunity for these untethered devices to enjoy high bandwidth services, once reserved for fixed devices. However, the WLAN systems only provide short range coverage, are not widely deployed, or do not provide for user mobility and hence are not generally suitable of providing enhanced services for mobile users over a wide area. It is desirable to develop multiuse, multi-mode, multi standard interoperable technologies which integrate the capabilities of cellular, infrared (IR), satellite, wide area network (WAN) and WLAN systems to provide complete end to-end enhanced services. This can be achieved by modulation format selectable (MFS) and bit rate agile (BRA) multi-mode, multiuse interoperable systems. Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) systems and Wi-Fi embodiments are included and integrated with other implementation architectures in the current disclosure. The terms Wi-Fi or wireless fidelity or related terms, used in this application, are for systems such as IEEE 802.x_ standardized systems and are to be used generically when referring of any type of 802.11 network, whether IEEE 802.11b, 802.11a, 802.16, 802.20 dual-band, etc. The term Wi-Fi is also used as promulgated by the Wi-Fi Alliance and has also broader interpretations; alternative terms to Wi-Fi, such as UWB/W-USB, ZigBee, NFC and WiMax are also used and included in the embodiments of this invention.



Nowadays it is not unusual that an individual has a cellular phone, a pager, about three or more remote control (RC) devices e.g. one or more RC for one or more television sets, for VCR, for satellite channel TV set, garage opener, car opener, portable FM radio, video camcorder, computer, PDA, multiple cordless phones and other electronic devices. It is overwhelming just to keep track of all of these devices. Thus, consolidation or integration of many devices, units into one multipurpose or multiuse unit would be desirable.



To enable the implementation of efficient multiuse communication devices for single or multiple information signals and communications between and within multiple standardized and a multitude of non-standardized systems, between a large class of communication and control transmission-reception media, such as wireless (e.g. cellular, land mobile, satellite), cable, Fiber Optics Communication (FOC), internet, intranet and other media there is a need to have adaptable or agile systems and adaptable embodiment structures. Such structures including Intermediate Frequency (IF) and or Radio Frequency (RF) agile, Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptable (BRA), Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and or Modulation Embodiment Selectable (MES) systems are disclosed. The multiuse modulator-demodulator (modem) and or modulator and or demodulator implementations, disclosed in this application, have Intermediate Frequency (IF) and or Radio Frequency (RF) agile, that is IF adaptable and or RF adaptable embodiments. In IF and or RF adaptable or IF and or RF agile systems the center frequency of the modulated signal(s) is selectable and or adaptable to the desired transmission frequency band. The RF transmitter-receiver (transceiver) embodiments are also RF agile implementations. Several features of the multiuse embodiments are optional and are not included in some implementation structures. Some of these include the optional Bit Rate Agile or Bit Rate Adaptable (BRA) structures and or RF agile implementations and or cross-correlated and or other structures and or features. There is a need for one or more of the modulators, in certain embodiments to have BRA and or Code Selectable and or MFS and or MES implementations. The term Modulation Format Selectable (MFS), as used in this application is defined to mean that the modulation technique (modulation format) is adaptable, changeable (selectable) and also that the coding technique, if coding is used in the system is also adaptable, changeable (selectable) in certain embodiments. In some disclosed embodiments the same modulation format and same bit rate is used, however the modulation embodiment is different. For example, in an application a GMSK modulated system uses a Quadrature Modulation (QM) structure for low transmit power applications, while for a high transmit power application it uses a non-quadrature modulation (NQM), e.g. polar implementation structure. Thus, in this example the same GMSK modulation format, having the same bit rate (or a different bit rate) is switched (or selected) to be transmitted instead in the QM embodiment in a NQM embodiment.



The disclosed subject matter is for multiuse and or multipurpose applications, devices and systems, including systems for: position determination, location based services and applications, location finding, tracking, single or multiple tracking, Remote Control (RC), Universal Remote Control (URC), wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems, communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, diagnostics units and systems, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid (DNA) systems, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control and or using DNA samples for interactive communication or control of certain communications and control systems, cardiac stimulation devices, systems having push to talk (PT) options, interactive touch screen controlled communication and control systems for single or multimode communications, broadcasting, teleinformatics and telemetry systems.



The presented implementations and embodiments are for single and multiple devices in single and multiple mode systems and networks. Location finding, tracking and identification of devices, including processing of certain measured parameters or diagnostics results (via sensors, such as motion detectors, body temperature, blood pressure or other devices) are communicated to devices and units which might be at central locations and or are peers of the monitored located device and are also mobile units, e.g. mobile telephones, mobile computers such as Personal Digital Assistants (PDA) or laptop computers, mobile entertainment or educational devices, or mobile navigational and interactive devices, or are units at fixed locations, e.g. wired telephones or computers. Interactive location based and educational and or entertainment devices and systems for mobile wireless and or wired media or internet web media information transfer and telematics and telemetry are also included. Regarding images, pictures and video and scanned or stored images and pictures three dimensional (3D) images are included in the communications units. Certain devices have incorporated touch screens for control or comiunication or interaction with the communication and or display devices.



Multimode, multiuse system operation, multi-purpose diagnostics, patient monitoring, multi purpose systems, including connections of multi mode devices to allow users communication and control with interoperable connected cellular Global Mobile System (GSM), Wireless-Fidelity (Wi-Fi) systems devices or phones to roam from wide area to local area wireless networks and vice versa, with location finder seamless operation and wired or inteniet web based monitoring signal processing implementations are presented. These systems, in certain applications are connected to cordless telephones and or other cordless devices. The term signal processing refers to signal and or data processing. This application includes multi operation and mufti function of a plurality of embodiments of one or more of the following system components: single or multiple location finder, location tracker devices, position finder devices (note the terms "location finder", "location tracker" and "position finder" have in several parts of this disclosure practically the same meaning), Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), connected with single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation or Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) satellite and/or land based devices. These multiuse system components assembled in one or more combinations and variations, also known as "plug and play", are disclosed for operation in standardized systems, e.g. GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. While, prior art wireless short range systems such as the standardized Bluetooth system provide connection to cell phone systems the prior art short range systems do not provide connection to selectable enhanced performance multi-standard, multi-mode, Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and Bit Rate Selectable systems (also designated as Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems) and cascaded wireless, wired and Internet Protocol (IP) and embodiments, such as described and claimed in this invention. This application includes embodiments and architectures for more efficient implementation and of enhanced performance second generation (2G), third generation (3G), fourth generation (4G) and fifth generation (5G) and other new generations of wireless and broadcast, processing, storage, medical diagnostics-communications and control, interactive entertainment and educational and business systems with or without use of internet and/or multimedia systems. The terms 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G have a broad generic meaning and are not limited to certain specific standards. These terms are interpreted, within the new inventions disclosed herein, as new generation and or enhanced performance or more efficient implementation of prior art systems.



In addition to finding lost, runaway or kidnapped humans, lost, runaway or stolen pets/animals or objects, several medical applications for patient monitoring with multi-mode wireless, wired and internet systems are also disclosed in this application. For surgery, other medical procedures and medical patient monitoring and diagnostics, hybrid wired and wireless or purely wireless systems which reduce or eliminate the cables and wires attached to human body are also described. Video broadcasting, multicasting and video conferencing technologies, in conjunction with the aforementioned technologies are also disclosed. Language translators with written and audio converted text are presented. Voice recognition systems and fingerprint recognition transmission and activation methods are disclosed.



To remove or minimize cables for patient monitoring systems new architectures, structures and embodiments for multi mode, multi standard, non standardized wireless, wired, cabled, infrared, multiple "cascaded" switched and combined solutions and systems are presented in this disclosure. This include cascade of cellular i.e. GSM or GSM switched to CDMA systems, with short range wireless systems, one or multiple such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or other. Motivation for reducing the number of cables include, the desire to eliminate the cumbersome cables connected to the patient, facilitate the surgery, and facilitate and speed up the patient recovery, enabling the patient to move, exercise and improve the quality of life of the patient during surgery, recovery and post recovery monitoring and shorten emergency time response including a remote physician, nurse or other authorized health provider, in a reverse link to control-administer certain medical-pharmaceutical items, e.g. insulin or other; also to eliminate or reduce cable caused potentially harmful currents to the patient. The term reverse link means the link (signal flow) from the physician, nurse or other authorized health provider to the patient or patients medical device; the term forward link refers to the link from the patients medical device, e.g. from the cardiac stimulation device to the physician, nurse or other authorized health provider or health monitoring system.



The prior art pacemaker control requires magnet detection circuit for magnet controlled pacemaker parameters. Unfortunately this magnet dependent operation/change of parameters of pacemakers is in many cases causing difficulties and or even rendering impossible to have Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and/or Magnetic Resonance Image scanning on a patient who has a pacemaker. Since MRI is a frequently desired diagnostic procedure for diagnostic purposes, even in an emergency where the information from the MRI scan could be life saving, and since MRI interferes with the correct operation of currently available magnetic detection-magnetic controlled based pacemakers, it would be highly desirable to develop a new generation of pacemakers which could be operated and controlled without substantial magnetic materials, i.e. without the need of magnet based detection and magnet control.



In distinction with the prior art magnet detection circuit, in the current invention there is no need for magnet detection circuits and no need for magnet's to be placed over or into the pacemaker to reset or modify parameters and functions/operation of the pacemaker. In the current invention magnetic detection and magnet control of pacemaker is replaced by wireless signal detection and based on the detected wireless signals and processing of said wireless detected signals (received from a physician operated wireless transmitter) control signals are generated to control the parameters and operation of the pacemaker.



Wireless systems authentication with fingerprint and or other means is also disclosed.



In this application the terms "multiuse" and or "multipurpose" mean that one or more of the aforementioned applications, systems, system architectures and or embodiments or combinations of the aforementioned system components are used.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



Figures



FIG. 1 shows implementation structures for single and or multiple communications systems, including single and or multiple location or position finder systems, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), medical diagnostics, emergency and remote control systems.



FIG. 2 is a structure of a multi mode location and multi-mode communication system, including wireless, wired (or cabled) and internet-web based connections with single or multiple communication links and or communication transceivers (T/R) and or communication and control units.



FIG. 3 is a structure of a system having single or a plurality of selectable Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC), Terminal (Subscriber Unit) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) devices.



FIG. 4 shows embodiments and structures for systems and networks containing Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC) units, Terminal or Subscriber Unit (SU) and Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units.



FIG. 5 represents implementation architectures and structures for single or multiple receiver and single or multiple transmitter signals, including location or position finder signals, from one or more antennas.



FIG. 6 is represents a generic prior art transmitter and receiver (transceiver or T/R), disclosed in Feher's U.S. Pat. No. 6,665,348 (the '348 patent).



FIG. 7 shows prior art cross-correlated signals, and in particular in-phase (I) and quadrature-phase (Q) signal patterns-displayed in the time domain.



FIG. 8 presents prior art measured cross-correlated in-phase (I) and quadrature-phase (Q) baseband signals of a GMSK modulator, with BTb=0.3, specified for GSM systems.



FIG. 9 shows Quadrature and Non Quadrature Architectures with one or more processors, and or single or multiple modulators and antennas.



FIG. 10 is a multiple BRA and MFS transmitter architecture with one or more processors, modulators and amplifiers, antennas and interface connection(s) to wired or cabled or other transmission media.



FIG. 11a is a new implementation architecture and block diagram of a multiple communication link, also designated as a cascaded link, or a system having cascaded units which inter operate in a sequence for multimode operated wireless and or wired and internet systems including fixed location systems and mobile systems.



FIG. 11b shows an exemplary prior art quadrature modulator.



FIG. 12 is an embodiment of an RF head end (alternatively designated as RF subsystem or RF part) which is co-located with the baseband and or Intermediate Frequency (IF) processing units, or is at a remote location.



FIG. 13 represents an alternative embodiment of a multi mode BRA and MFS system connected to single or multitude of wireless, wired, cabled or fiber optic communication (FOC) connected and or internet or mobile internet web based systems.



FIG. 14 is an embodiment of a multi-mode, multi bit rate system, with BRA, MFS and code selectable OFDM, WCDMA, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max, WLAN, infrared, Bluetooth and or other spread spectrum or continuous data systems.



FIG. 15 is an adaptive Radio Frequency (RF) wave generator, RF processor, radio and modulator structure.



FIG. 16 is a multimode, multipurpose system embodiment for numerous applications, including signal processing and storage, medical diagnostics, broadcasting entertainment, educational and alarm system for seamless adaptive communications, emergency reporting, location finding and remote control embodiments.



FIG. 17a is a Non-quadrature (non-QUAD) and quadrature modulation (Quad Mod or QUAD mod) multiple modulator embodiment, including polar modulator structures.



FIG. 17b shows a polar (non Quadrature) exemplary prior art modulator implementation block diagram.



FIG. 17c a Non-Quadrature (non-QUAD) exemplary prior art modulator architecture is illustrated.



FIG. 18 represents multi-mode location receiver connections to multi-mode or to single mode wireless transmitters.



FIG. 19 is a Software Defined Radio (SDR), Multiple SDR (MSDR) and Hybrid Defined Radio (HDR) transmitter and receiver embodiment, with single or multiple processors, single and or multiple RF amplifiers and antennas and single or multiple SDR and or non-SDR implementation architectures.



FIG. 20 shows interface and or processor units, set of modulators, amplifiers, selection devices and or combiner devices which provide RF signals to the transmission medium.



FIG. 21 is an embodiment of a single or multiple transmitter architecture using single or multiple transmitters; the multiple transmitter implementations are also designated as a diversity transmitter.



FIG. 22 shows a Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) system.



FIG. 23 is a Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO), Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO), and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO) embodiment having one or multiple RF interface points and or one or multitude of antennas.



FIG. 24 represents an antenna array implementing Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) and or Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO) and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO) communication, position finding and broadcasting transmission-reception system, including transmit antenna diversity and receive antenna diversity systems.



FIG. 25 shows Software Defined Radio (SDR) and Hybrid Defined Radio (HDR) systems for Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) and or Single Input Multiple Output (SIMO) and or Multiple Input Single Output (MISO), including diversity systems.



FIG. 26 is an information monitoring processing and communication system. This system in certain application includes a patient monitor and diagnostic system.



FIG. 27 depicts a Universal System including one or multiple Remote Control or Universal Remote Control (URC) devices, including wired or wireless devices.



FIG. 28 shows a test and measurement instrumentation system within a wireless multi-mode system.



FIG. 29 is an implementation architecture of single or multiple cellular phones, or of other mobile devices, communicating with single or multiple Base Station Transceiver (BST) having single or plurality of antennas.



FIG. 30 represents an implantable cardiac stimulation device, a heart and a block diagram of a single-chamber and or a dual-chamber pacemaker with single or multiple wireless communications and control systems.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION AND OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS



In this section, the present invention is more fully described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the illustrated embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.



One or more devices (alternatively designated as units, elements, systems, terminals, devices, leads or connections) are optional in the embodiments. The elements may be interconnected and or used in various configurations. In the figures and relevant descriptions of the figures, as well as in the specifications of this disclosure, some of the units or elements are optional and are not required for certain applications, embodiments and or structures. In this document the term "signal" has the most generic meaning used in the prior art and includes electrical, acoustical, infrared, X-ray, fiber optics, light sound, position, altitude diagnostics, beat, density, and other sensor or device or human being or animal or object generated or processed waveforms, images, pictures, symbols, wavelets, wave shapes and analog or digital or "hybrid" analog and digital signals.



FIG. 1 shows implementation structures for single and or multiple communications systems, including single and or multiple location or position finder systems, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), medical diagnostics, emergency communication and remote control systems connected with single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation or Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) cellular, other mobile wireless, satellite and/or land based devices for Global Mobile System (GSM), General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. In particular, FIG. 1 is an embodiment of interface units, processors, transmitters and receivers (also designated as transceivers or TR), single or multiple communication and or broadcast devices, location finder, location, position finder and tracking devices and processors, connected through selectors or combiners with single or multiple transceivers, communication systems entertainment devices, educational systems and or medical devices, e.g. patient monitor devices and or sensors connected to one or more communication systems. Interface Unit 1.1 is a device or part of a communication system and or part of location finder or location tracking or location positioning system or processor, for example part of a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or an interface to a GPS receiver or other location finder or tracking device or a sensor, signal detector and processor of acoustic (e.g. voice, sound, music) signals, video and/or visual and/or image signals (moving video, still photographs, X-Ray pictures, telemetry signals), temperature (e.g. human body temperature, animal's body temperature, temperature of an object), electrical signal, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID) received or generated signal, infrared, X-ray and or of other signals, parameters generated by sensors or obtained from any other sources. Unit 1.1 may contain sensors for heart beat, strength, pulse rate, glucose, arterial blood gas sensors, insulin sensors or monitors and or other medical devices. Unit 1.1 may also contain sensors and medical apparatus or devices connected to a patient during a surgery, or post surgery for patient monitoring. Unit 1.1 may contain only one of the mentioned elements, or more of the aforementioned elements. Unit 1.1 may contain certain combinations and/or variations of the devices described in this section. In some other embodiments Unit 1.1 is a simple interface unit to connect signals from a signal source and or from multiple sources to and or from the communication medium. The term "signal source" or "source" includes a broad class of signal sources, signal processors and or signal generators, including speech, audio, video, picture, display, data storage, information processors and other devices which generate, contain or process signals. Implementation of interface Unit 1.1 consists of a connection device (such as a wire or cable or part of circuit or connection to an antenna or an electronic or acoustical or infrared or laser coupler or connector, or an electronic or electrical circuit) or a combination of one or more devices. Interface Unit 1.1 may be a simple interface for video or television (TV), or digital camera (digital photo camera or digicam) signals or interface unit for a sequence of images or other visual signals such as photographs, scanned images or processors or devices of visual signals and or stored and programmable music-such as contained in prior art portable music players or integrated prior art MP3 players, with or without prior art Windows Mobile smartphone software, computer, entertainment, games, interactive video games with or without location finders, location finders with or without radio FM/AM or digital radio or other radio or television broadcast signals. In one of the implementations Unit 1.1 contains the web or WEB or the World Wide Web, shortly web or www, Mobile Web access from mobile devices. Unit 1.1 contains in some of the embodiments a push to talk (PTT) processor. The signal or plurality of different type of signals is connected to one or more transceivers (TR) contained in Unit 1.2. The term transceiver refers to one or multiple transmitters and receivers and also to one or multiple receivers and transmitters. Specifically, the TR, Unit 1.2 may include one or multiple entire transceivers or could consist of one or multiple receivers or one or multiple transmitters. Unit 1.2 (also designated as Element 1.2 or Device 1.2) could be one or multiple Bluetooth (BT), infrared (IR), other wireless, e.g. satellite or cable, or wired transceiver(s), or part of a transceiver(s). Unit 1.3 is a signal splitter or signal selector device or connection which selects or combines and connects the Element 1.2 provided signals (one or more signals) to one or more communication systems or subsystems contained in communicator devices Unit 1.4, Unit 1.5, and Unit 1.6. The communicator devices Unit 1.4, Unit 1.5, and Unit 1.6 are parts or entire GSM, CDMA or Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) or other wired, cabled or wireless devices respectively. Systems components in Unit 1.6, designated as "OFDM or other", are assembled in one or more combinations and variations, also known as "plug and play" and are for operation in single or multiple standardized systems, e.g. GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems. One or more of the FIG. 1 components could be Modulation Format Selectable (MFS) and or Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems. Signal selector or signal combiner Unit 1.7 provides the selected or combined signals to one or plurality antennas, shown as Unit 1.8a or other signal interface units which provide the selected or combined signals to the wireless or wired, or cabled, or internet medium, such as web (or WEB) or www, represented by Unit 1.8b. Single or plurality of signals are received on single or multiple antennas 1.11a and or on single or multiple interface points 1.11b and are provided to Splitter or switch Unit 1.12 for connecting one or more of the received signal(s) to communication devices, Unit 1.13, Unit 1.14, and/or Unit 1.15, respectively. Unit 1.15 is the receiver section of the transmitted signals of Unit 1.6, designated as OFDM or other. In other embodiments Unit 1.15 is receiver section of other signals, such as OFDM, infrared, WI-Fi, TDMA, FDMA, telemetry WLAN, WMAN, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, or other signals or a combination of one or more of such signals. Signal selector or signal combiner Unit 1.16, provides one or multiple signals to interface or processor Unit 1.17. In some of the implementations, structures and architectures Units 1.6 and Unit 1.15 contain one or more of the following devices: interface devices, processors, modulators, demodulators, transmitters, receivers, splitters, combiners for one or more of OFDM, infrared, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, TDMA, FDMA, FDM, telemetry, RFID, WLAN, MLAN, cellular systems, cable, wireless web wireless internet or other wired or internet systems.



In the transmitter part, shown in the upper part of FIG. 1, and also in the receiver part, illustrated in the lower part of FIG. 1, the selection or combing of signals is under the control of processors and or programs and/or manual control. The selection or combing of signals is not shown in FIG. 1. Interface and or processor Unit 1.17 interfaces to and or processes one or more of the received signals and may provide control signals to the receiver and also to the transmitter. Block arrows Unit 1.9 and Unit 1.10 designate signal and control path and or physical connections for processing and/or control of parts of the elements shown in FIG. 1.



FIG. 2 is a structure of a multi mode location and multi-mode communication system, including wireless, wired (or cabled) and internet-web based connections with single or multiple communication links and or communication transceivers (T/R) and or communication and control units. One or more antennas Unit 2.1, Unit 2.2, Unit 2.3 and Unit 2.4, transmit or receive one or more signals. On block arrow Unit 2.5 one or more other signals are connected to the or from the single or multiple transceivers. Unit 2.6 is an interface unit or single or multiple transceivers connected to the signal transmission or signal reception medium. The signals from or to Unit 2.6 are connected with the single or multiple communication link, Unit 2.8. Interface Unit 2.17 through connections 2.16, 2.18, 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and communication and control Unit 2.10 process signals and provide communication and control signals from or to antenna Units 2.11, 2.12, 2.13, 2.14, interface Unit 2.15, interface connection Unit 2.17, antenna Units 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and interface connection Unit 2.5. All antenna units and connections 2.5 and connections 2.15 provide duplex (bi directional) signal transfers. Units 2.6 and 2.8 are in "cascade", i.e. they are connected to each other in a sequence. Communication and Control Unit 2.10 may also operate in cascade with one or more of Unit 2.6 or 2.8. In other embodiments, one or more of the units, shown in FIG. 2, are connected in parallel or a star or mesh network, or other configurations.



FIG. 3 is a structure of a system having single or a plurality of selectable Position Determining Entity (PDE), Base Station Controller (BSC), Terminal (Subscriber Unit) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) devices. While the cited prior art, such as Riley's U.S. Pat. No. 6,865,395 Ref. 8, Qualcomm CDMA Technologies' MSM 6275 and Qualcomm CDMA Technologies' MSM 6300 chipset solution Ref 65 and Ref 66 disclose system and network operations of PDE, BSC, BTS and subscriber units, the prior art does not disclose nor anticipate the structures and connections of multi-mode, multi-purpose MFS systems operated in cascaded and or parallel, star or mesh configurations, selectable single or multiple single structures such as disclosed and claimed in this application. The term cascaded or cascade refers to units or devices operated in a sequence or in parallel with each others. FIG. 3 includes processing of Receiver or Location Finder Signals, e.g. GPS signals and or land line and or web-internet information signals and it includes Transmit Section of Multiple Communicator Devices. Elements (also designated as Units or Devices) 3.8, 3.9, 3.11, 3.14, 3.16 and 3.18 are single or multiple antennas which receive and or transmit signals from to a Position Determining Entity (PDE) transmitter or to one or more Base Station Transceivers (BTS) devices and/or to subscriber units, including peer to peer direct communication between subscribers. In some of the implementations transmitters of PDE signals include one or more satellite systems, such as GPS satellites, cellular base stations, wireless base stations or other wireless transmitters such as cellular phones PDA wireless transmitters, Remote Control (RC) transmitters, infrared or any other transmitters. Units 3.1 and 3.3 are interface units and or front end ports respectively, for reception of the PDE signals from the antennas, from infrared transmitters, from laser transmitters and or from wired connections or from the internet. Wired connections include fiber optics, copper, cable and any other connection. In some embodiments the Position Determining Entity (PDE) front end is a Remote Front end while in other cases it is co-located with the entire receiver. Units 3.2 and 3.4 are one or a plurality of Base Station Controller (BSC) units, designated as units BSC-1 to BSC-N. The BSC units control signals of the Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units 3.7, 3.10, 3.12, 3.13, 3.15 and 3.17. Signal reception and or signal processing and or signal transmission by the antenna units or sets of antenna units 3.8, 3.9, 3.11, 3.14, 3.16 and or 3.18 is controlled by one or more BSC units or by controller devices located in the Base Station Transceivers (BTS), or by control devices located outside of these units.



FIG. 4 shows embodiments and structures for systems and networks containing Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE), also designated as Position Determining Device (PDD), location tracker, location finder or position finder devices, Base Station Controller (BSC) units and Terminal or Subscriber Unit (SU) Base Station Transceiver Subsystem (BTS) units. Remote Control (RC), Universal Remote Control (URC), wireless, wired, cabled, internet, web based communication systems and communicator devices, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems with single or plurality of devices, emergency and other alarm systems, medical patient monitor-sensor devices, diagnostics units and systems, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid (DNA) systems, fingerprint identification, fingerprint control and or using DNA samples for interactive communication or control of certain communications and control systems and systems having push to talk (PTT) options are included in some of the embodiments. Each unit may contain interface unit and or processor unit, memory, communication port, single or multiple modulator or transmitter(s) and single or multiple receivers and or demodulators with or without single or multiple switching selection devices and/or signal combining and splitting devices. Communications, telematics, telemetry, video broadcasting and or point to point video transmission, transmission of audio and or data and or video to mobile units is embodied by the implementation of single or multiple Bit Rate Agile (BRA), and single modulation format and or multimode Modulation Format Selectable (MFS), single bit rate and or multiple bit rate and or Bit Rate Agile (BRA) systems, such as enhanced performance or new features, new applications and new embodiment based GSM, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), Enhanced Digital GSM Evolution (EDGE), or Evolution of GSM (E-GSM), Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA or W-CDMA), Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA), IEEE 802.xx, Digital European Cordless Telecommunication (DECT), Infrared (IR), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi), Bluetooth, and other standardized as well as non-standardized systems, disclosed in this application. Units 4.1, 4.3 and 4.5 contain single or Multiple Position Determining Entity (PDE) devices, while Units 4.2, 4.4 and 4.6 are single or multiple BTS devices. Units 4.7, 4.8 and 4.9 are single or multiple transmit and or receive or transmit/receive antennas embodied as single band or multiple band antenna systems. Units 4.14, 4.16 and 4.18 are terminals, also designated as subscriber units (SU). In certain implementations the SU contain the PDE or position finder or location finder or location tracker unit, or RFID units. The BTS devices or BTS units communicate directly with the SC devices (units); in other applications some SC units communicate with other SC units without the use of BTS devices (also designated as BTS units). Block arrows 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 show communication links between BTS, PDE and SC units and combinations of units, without the need to have all units in the network.



FIG. 5 represents implementation architectures and structures for single or multiple receiver and single or multiple transmitter signals, including location or position finder signals, e.g. wireless signals, cellular signals, GPS signals received from one or more satellites or from one or more ground (terrestrial) based single or plurality of antennas, Units 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.15 and 5.16 or land line or world wide web (www) signals received by connections or interface units 5.4 and 5.14 which interface and or receive signals from Transmit Section of Multiple Communicator Devices. Multiple Position Determining Entity (MPDE) is also designated as Position Determining Device (PDD). The Position Determining Entity (PDE) ports/units 5.5 and 5.17, in certain cases are part of the entire receivers while in other cases are implemented at separate locations from other parts of the receivers and designated as remote RF front ends. In addition to the PDE ports, other units of the receiver are located at remote locations, from the subsequent parts of the receivers. Units 5.1 to 5.23 constitute parts of two receivers. Each unit is optional and not all units are required for the operation of the system. Units 5.6 and 5.18 are Band Pass Filter (BPF), Units 5.7 and 5.19 are amplifiers, Units 5.8 and 5.20 are signal multipliers (also known as mixers) for signal down conversion and Units 5.9 and 5.21 are frequency synthesizers or oscillators which provide signals to the mixers. Units 5.10, 5.22 and 5.11, 5.23 are demodulators and signal processors which provide, through an optional signal combiner or signal selector, Unit 5.12, demodulated and processed single or multiple output signals to connection lead 5.13. In direct radio frequency (RF) to baseband conversion receivers, or any other direct conversion receivers, including certain Software Defined Radio (SDR) implementations several aforementioned units are not used in the implementations. Units 5.24 to 5.40 are elements or devices of single or plurality of transmit sections of one or more transmitters of one or more communicator devices. Software Defined Radio (SDR) systems concepts, principles, SDR architectures and SDR technologies have been described in the prior art, including in the cited reference book Tuttlebee, W.: "Software Defined Radio: Baseband Technology for 3G Handsets and Basestations", John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England, ISBN 0-470-86770-1, Copyright 2004. On single or multiple input connections or leads 5.24 single or multiple signals are received from one or more input signal sources, signal processors, sensors, detection devices or other systems; these input signals or signal sources include one or more of the following signals obtained from: Video to mobile video transmitters, Video over Internet Protocol (ViIP), Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), wireless systems including GSM, GPRS, TDMA, WCDMA, CDMA, W-CDMA, Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM), infrared (IR), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, wired systems, cable connected systems and or a combination of wired/wireless and or internet web based systems, including mobile web, or mobile internet based systems. The signa

PatentNumber=7809330,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The present invention relates generally to a technology for reselecting an antenna in a cellular mobile communication system, and in particular, to a technology for reselecting a plurality of antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station as the mobile station shifts from one place to another.



2. Description of the Related Art



The conventional mobile communication system provides a voice-oriented service, and chiefly depends on channel coding in order to overcome deterioration in channel quality. However, due to an increase in demand for high-quality multimedia service that enables users to communicate with anyone, anytime, anywhere, the conventional voice service is evolving into a data service and there is a demand for a next generation radio transmission technology for transmitting the increased amount of data at a higher data rate and at a lower error rate. In particular, importance of high-speed data transmission in a forward link having the greater amount of required data is ever increasing.



A mobile communication environment deteriorates the reliability of the signals due to fading, shading effect, propagation attenuation, noise, and interference. A fading phenomenon due to multiple paths brings about significant signal distortion caused by the sum of signals having different phases and sizes, which are received through different paths. The fading effect is one of the difficulties that should be overcome in order to achieve a high-speed data communication, and extensive researches is being conducted to overcome the wireless channel characteristics and utilize the features. As a result, a Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) technology using a plurality of transmission and reception antennas has been proposed.



In a cellular mobile communication system using the multiple antennas, unlike in the conventional cellular mobile communication system, a mobile station and a base station, both of which use a plurality of antennas, can exchange data with each other at a higher speed without increasing a bandwidth of the system.



Even in the cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, like in the conventional cellular mobile communication system in which a mobile station uses a single antenna, performance of a channel formed between a mobile station and a base station varies due to the movement of the mobile station, and a need for forming a new channel to another antenna occurs as the mobile station moves from one cell to another, or if channel quality is to be adjusted. The cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, as a base station has a plurality of antennas even in a single cell, should occasionally reselect antennas according to time-varying channel performance. For example, even when a mobile station moves between sectors in a cell divided by the plurality of antennas of the base station, an antenna should be reselected for the same base station.



In addition, when a mobile station moves from a current cell (serving cell) to another cell (target cell), the mobile station in an overlapping region between the cells may connect with both an antenna of a serving base station and an antenna of a target base station. In this case, it is difficult to reconfigure a channel with the conventional handoff scheme.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The present invention provides a system and method for reselecting a plurality of antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station according to channel performance in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas.



The present invention provides a system and method in which a mobile station is simultaneously connected to base stations of neighbor cells using a plurality of antennas when the mobile station moves between cells in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas.



The present invention provides a system and method for reselecting a plurality of antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station during a handoff in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas.



The present invention provides a system and method in which a mobile station is simultaneously connected to neighbor base stations using a plurality of antennas in a region where a plurality of cells overlap each other during a handoff in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas.



According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for reselecting an antenna for a data channel by a mobile station in a cellular mobile communication system including the mobile station having at least two antennas, a home base station having a plurality of antennas, at least one of which is used to form the data channel to the mobile station, and at least one neighbor base station for the home base station, the method including the steps of determining whether to reselect antennas according to channel qualities individually measured for first antennas of the home base station and second antennas of the neighbor base station; and selecting at least two antennas from among the first antennas and the second antennas when it is necessary to reselect the antennas.



According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for reselecting an antenna for a mobile station by a home base station used to form a data channel to the mobile station having at least two antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, the method including the steps of receiving from the mobile station channel qualities individually measured for first antennas of the home base station and second antennas of a neighbor base station for the home base station; determining whether to reselect antennas for the mobile station according to the channel qualities; and selecting at least two antennas from among the first antennas and the second antennas when it is necessary to reselect the antennas.



According to further another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for reselecting an antenna for a data channel by a mobile station in a cellular mobile communication system including the mobile station having at least two antennas, a home base station having a plurality of antennas, at least one of which is used to form the data channel to the mobile station, and at least one neighbor base station for the home base station, the system including the mobile station for determining whether to reselect antennas based on channel qualities individually measured for first antennas of the home base station and second antennas of the neighbor base station, selecting at least two antennas from among the first antennas and the second antennas based on the measured channel qualities when it is necessary to reselect the antennas, and transmitting information on the selected at least two antennas to the home base station; and the home base station for receiving information on the measured channel qualities and transmitting a command for selection of at least the two antennas to the mobile station according to the received information.



According to further another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for reselecting an antenna for a mobile station by a home base station used to form a data channel to the mobile station including at least two antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, the system including the mobile station for measuring channel qualities for first antennas of the home base station and second antennas of a neighbor base station for the home base station, and transmitting the measured channel qualities; and the home base station for determining whether to reselect antennas for the mobile station based on the measured channel qualities, and selecting at least two antennas from among the first antennas and the second antennas according to the measured channel qualities when it is necessary to reselect the antennas.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:



FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas to which the present invention is applied;



FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a mobile station according to a first embodiment of the present invention;



FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating a basic concept of a handoff in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas to which the present invention is applied;



FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrating a method for determining whether to reselect antennas according to an embodiment of the present invention;



FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a base station according to the first embodiment of the present invention;



FIG. 6 is a signaling diagram illustrating a method for reselecting transmission antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas according to the first embodiment of the present invention;



FIG. 7 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a mobile station according to a second embodiment of the present invention;



FIG. 8 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a base station according to the second embodiment of the present invention; and



FIG. 9 is a signaling diagram illustrating a method for reselecting transmission antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas according to the second embodiment of the present invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT



Several preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the annexed drawings. In the following description, a detailed description of known functions and configurations incorporated herein has been omitted for conciseness.



The present invention reselects a plurality of antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas. For convenience of description, it will be assumed herein that a base station serves as a transmission side and a mobile station serves as a reception side, that a forward link having a greater amount of required data is taken into consideration, and thus the antennas of the base station are referred to as transmission antennas, and antennas of the mobile station are referred to as reception antennas. However, it should be noted that the present invention is not limited to the forward link.



As illustrated in FIG. 1 in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas to which the present invention is applied includes mobile stations (MSs) 12 and base stations (BSs) 11 each of which include multiple antennas. A channel of the cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas is formed with a combination of a plurality of reception antennas of the mobile stations 12 and a plurality of transmission antennas of the base stations 11. In particular, as the mobile stations 12 include a plurality of reception antennas, a plurality of reception antennas included in the same mobile station 12 can be simultaneously connected to transmission antennas of different base stations 11.



It is general provision that the mobile stations 12 continuously shift from one place to another, channels between the plurality of antennas of the mobile stations 12 and the base stations 11 should be changed upon occasions for the best channel performance. In particular, the cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, as a base station has a plurality of transmission antennas even in a single cell, should occasionally reselect transmission antennas according to time-varying channel performance. For example, even when a mobile station moves between sectors in a cell divided by the plurality of transmission antennas of the base station, transmission antennas should be reselected for the same base station. In addition, when a mobile station moves from a current cell (serving cell) to another cell (target cell), the mobile station in an overlapping region (also known as "handoff region") between the cells can connect with both a plurality of transmission antennas of a serving base station managing the serving cell and a plurality of transmission antennas of a target base station managing the target cell. Of course, even in a non-handoff region, depending upon channel performance, all of the reception antennas of a mobile station may be connected to the transmission antennas of the serving base station managing the serving cell or to the transmission antennas of the target base station managing the target cell. The present invention can be applied to all of the foregoing cases.



The present invention can be roughly implemented with two methods. In one method, a mobile station reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected thereto. In another method, a base station reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station.



Herein, a description of the present invention will be separately made for a first embodiment in which a mobile station reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected thereto, and a second embodiment in which a base station reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station.



In a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, in order to reselect a plurality of transmission antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station according to the present invention, a process of measuring a channel quality parameter based on which channel performance is estimated, and a process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas using the estimated channel quality parameter should be initially performed. After performing the process of measuring a channel quality parameter and determining whether to reselect transmission antennas, the system performs a main process of reselecting transmission antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station.



First Embodiment



A first embodiment of the present invention provides a system and method in which a mobile station reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected thereto.



With reference to FIG. 2 a description will be made of a structure of a mobile station according to the first embodiment of the present invention.



Referring to FIG. 2, a mobile station includes a storage 21, a parameter measurer 22, a channel performance estimator 23, an antenna reselect controller 24, and a feedback signal generator 25.



The storage 21 stores a candidate list of neighbor base stations neighboring a base station connected to the mobile station in the current position (hereinafter referred to as a "home base station"). The candidate list of the neighbor base stations includes identifications (IDs) of the base stations, the number of transmission antennas provided by a corresponding base station, and information related to the transmission antennas which can be reselected according to the present invention. The stored information can be derived from a memory (not shown) of the mobile station or can be received from base stations through control signals (for example, beacon signals).



Further, the candidate list of the neighbor base stations includes the information related to the home base station for the following reason. As the base stations include a plurality of transmission antennas, even though the particular transmission antennas have poor channel performance, the other transmission antennas having good channel performance can be connected to reception antennas of a mobile station, thereby forming high-performance channels. In addition, even though a mobile station is located in a handoff region, all of the transmission antennas selected in a transmission antenna reselecting process can be either transmission antennas of the home base station or transmission antennas of the neighbor base stations according to channel performance.



The parameter measurer 22 measures a channel quality parameter, an index based on the performance of the channels connected to the home base station and the neighbor base stations. It is preferable to periodically perform the measurement on the channel quality parameter. Alternatively, the measurement on the channel quality parameter can be performed at specific occasions. For example, the measured channel quality parameter includes noise power, signal power, correlation feature, Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI), Carrier-to-Interference ratio (C/I), Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR), and Signal-to-Interference Noise Ratio (SINR).



The channel performance estimator 23 generates information based on which performance of respective channels can be estimated, using the channel quality parameter measured by the parameter measurer 22.



The antenna reselect controller 24 has a threshold value with which it can determined whether to reselect transmission antennas, for the channel performance estimation information generated by the channel performance estimator 23. Based on the threshold value, the antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas based on whether the channel performance estimation information is greater or less than the threshold value. If it is determined that the transmission antennas should be reselected, the antenna reselect controller 24 provides to the home base station the feedback signal generator 25 with the measured channel quality parameter value to be transmitted.



If a transmission antenna reselect command is received from the home base station, the antenna reselect controller 24 reselects the transmission antennas reconnected to the reception antennas of the mobile station by consulting the candidate list of the neighbor base stations, stored in the storage 21. The antenna reselect controller 24 transmits the information related to the reselected transmission antennas and the information on the neighbor base stations including the reselected transmission antennas to the home base station through the feedback signal generator 25.



In the first embodiment of the present invention, the transmission antenna reselection is performed by the antenna reselect controller 24 of the mobile station, and its preceding process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas depending on channel performance estimation information is also performed by the antenna reselect controller 24.



The feedback signal generator 25 quantizes the measured channel quality parameter value provided from the antenna reselect controller 24, information on the reselected transmission antennas, and information on the neighbor base stations including the reselected transmission antennas, and transmits the quantization results to the home base station.



A detailed description will now be made of a method in which the parameter measurer 22 measures a channel quality parameter, and a method in which the antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas, and reselects the transmission antennas according to the determination result.



First, the method in which the parameter measurer 22 measures a channel quality parameter will be described. In the following description, it will be assumed that the parameter measurer 22 measures a channel quality parameter in a MIMO Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (MIMO-OFDM) cellular communication system. However, the channel quality parameter measurement method according to the present invention is not restricted to the MIMO-OFDM cellular communication system, and can include all of the channel quality parameter measurement methods for the cellular mobile communication systems using multiple antennas.



Generally, an input/output relation in a time domain in a MIMO-OFDM communication system is defined as Equation (1).



.function..times..function..times..function..function. ##EQU00001## where {h(l,p)} (where l=0, . . . , L) denotes samples of a MIMO multipath propagation channel at a time constant `n` for an OFDM symbol `p`, y(n,p) denotes a vector sampled at an n.sup.th sample for the OFDM symbol `p`, and v(n,p) denotes a term for noise and interference for a sample `n` and an OFDM symbol `p`.



Equation (1) can be expressed as Equation (2) in a frequency domain. Y(f,p)=H(f,p)X(f,p)+V(f,p) (2) where `f` denotes a tone, i.e., a subcarrier.



In the MIMO-OFDM communication system, noise power is measured as follows. In the time domain where it is assumed that no signal is transmitted (x(n,p)=0 for all n and a given OFDM symbol p), noise power is defined as Equation (3).



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..function. ##EQU00002## where .sigma..sub.v is the noise power, the summation is performed over N samples and M.sub.t is the number of transmission antennas.



Equation (3) can be expressed as Equation (4) in the frequency domain. When the values of the several subcarriers for a subchannel satisfying X(f,p)=0 are null for a given OFDM symbol p and some of the sets of the subcarriers f for a subchannel F, noise power is defined as Equation (4).



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00003## where the summation is performed over all subcarriers f, and |F| denotes a size of a subchannel.



An average of signal power transmitted in a base station to which the noise power calculated in accordance with Equation (3) and Equation (4) is given can be measured in the following way.



In the time domain where it is assumed that a signal is transmitted (there is a value of x(n,p) for all n and a given OFDM symbol p), an average of signal power is estimated by Equation (5).



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..function..sigma. ##EQU00004## where the summation is performed over N samples.



Equation (5) can be expressed as Equation (6) in the frequency domain. When there is an X(f,p) value for a given OFDM symbol p and some sets of subcarriers f for a subchannel F, an average of signal power is defined as Equation (6).



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..times..function..times..sigma. ##EQU00005## where the summation is performed over all subcarriers f, and |F| denotes a size of a subchannel.



A signal-to-noise pulse interference ratio can be calculated using the estimated noise power and signal power.



Some statistical features of channels can be estimated through the pilot information, and in this manner, it is possible to estimate the variance of the channels.



For a channel formed from a transmission antenna #k of a base station to a reception antenna #m of a mobile station, the channel feature in the time domain is estimated by Equation (7).



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..function. ##EQU00006## where [h(0,p)].sub.m,k denotes a channel sample in an m.sup.th column and a k.sup.th row of h(0,0), and its average is calculated for P channel information pieces.



Equation (7) can be expressed as Equation (8) in the frequency domain.



.sigma..apprxeq..times..times..function. ##EQU00007## where the summation is performed over P OFDM symbols and F tones, i.e., F subcarriers.



In addition, a parameter that can be measured by the parameter measurer 22 includes a correlation feature. In particular, an average of transmission correlations indicates a correlation between two transmission antennas.



In the time domain, a correlation feature between a transmission antenna #k and a transmission antenna #m can be expressed as Equation (9).



.rho..apprxeq..times..times..times..function..function..function. ##EQU00008##



Herein, the correlation feature is calculated as an average for R reception antennas and P correlation information pieces, and is averaged as many times as the total number of available multiple paths.



Equation (9) can be expressed as Equation (10) in the frequency domain.



.rho..apprxeq..times..times..times..times..function..function..function. ##EQU00009## where the summation is performed over P OFDM symbols, F tones, i.e. F subcarriers, and R reception antennas.



The correlation feature can be significantly affected depending on how the antennas of the base station are arranged, and as the arrangement basically fixed, the correlation feature may be predetermined. In this case, a base station may transmit the correlation feature information to a mobile station through a control signal, rather than the mobile station measuring the correlation feature.



The antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas in the following method. Because the present invention reselects transmission antennas of a base station according to channel performance as described above, it can be used for all of the cases where there is a change in the channel performance. In the following description, the present invention will be limited to a handoff situation which most directly shows the case where there is a change in the channel performance.



With reference to FIG. 3, a description will now be made of a basic concept of a handoff in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas to which the present invention is applied.



A mobile station 30 communicates with antennas 31 and 32 of a base station A using its antennas 38 and 39, in a cell 35. If the mobile station 30 moves toward a cell 36 and enters a handoff region 37 where the cell 35 and the cell 36 overlap each other, a transmission antenna reselecting process according to the present invention is performed. In FIG. 3, as a result of performing the transmission antenna reselecting process, the antenna 31 of the base station A and an antenna 33 of a base station B are selected as transmission antennas connected to the mobile station 30 in the handoff region 37. Therefore, the mobile station 30 is newly connected to the antenna 31 of the base station A and the antenna 33 of the base station B in the handoff region 37, and performs a handoff. Upon leaving the handoff region 37, the mobile station 30 is connected to the antennas 33 and 34 of the base station B by re-performing the transmission antenna reselecting process, and performs communication using the antennas 33 and 34.



In the cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, because a mobile station includes a plurality of antennas, a plurality of antennas of a mobile station can be connected to antennas of different base stations in a handoff region where cells overlap each other. Therefore, according to the present invention, a mobile station can perform communication seamlessly during a handoff.



However, the method for determining whether to reselect transmission antennas according to the present invention is not limited to the handoff situation, and it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that the restrictive method can be applied to all of the cases where there is a change in channel performance.



The antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas, using channel performance estimation information generated by the channel performance estimator 23. A description thereof will be made with reference to FIG. 4.



The channel performance estimation information used herein includes a signal strength indicator (SSI) and a channel correlation indicator (CCI). The SSI is an average value of signal powers, and the CCI is a random information value capable of representing a channel correlation feature calculated using the transmission correlation value. For example, the CCI can be defined as the maximum transmission correlation value, and is set to a value which is less than or equal to 1.



The SSI and the CCI are generated by the channel performance estimator 23 and delivered to the antenna reselect controller 24. More specifically, the channel performance estimator 23 delivers SSI.sub.h, SSI.sub.t, CCI.sub.h, and CCI.sub.t values to the antenna reselect controller 24. SSI.sub.h is a signal strength value of a channel through which the mobile station is connected to the home base station, and SSI.sub.t, is a signal strength value of a channel through which the mobile station is connected to a neighbor base station (or target base station). CCI.sub.h is a channel correlation value of a channel through which the mobile station is connected to the home base station, and CCI.sub.t is a channel correlation value of a channel through which the mobile station is connected to the neighbor base station.



The antenna reselect controller 24, receiving the SSI.sub.h, SSI.sub.h, CCI.sub.h, and CCI.sub.t values, determines the threshold values H.sub.in.sup.h and H.sub.in.sup.t based on the SSI.sub.h and CCI.sub.h and determines threshold values H.sub.out.sup.h and H.sub.out.sup.t based on the SSI.sub.t and CCI.sub.t, according to a lookup table. Herein, the threshold value H.sub.in.sup.h is a threshold value for home base station's signal strength, with which the home base station determines that the mobile station moves in the handoff region as described in connection with FIG. 3, and the threshold value H.sub.in.sup.t is a threshold value for a neighbor base station's signal strength, with which the neighbor base station determines that the mobile station moves in the handoff region. The threshold value H.sub.out.sup.h is a threshold value for a home base station's signal strength, with which the home base station determines that the mobile station moves out from the handoff region as described in connection with FIG. 3, and the threshold value H.sub.out.sup.h is a threshold value for a neighbor base station's signal strength, with which the neighbor base station determines that the mobile station moves out from the handoff region.



A method for calculating the threshold values will now be described in detail. A threshold value H.sub.in, with which the home base station and the neighbor base station determine that the mobile station moves in the handoff region, and a threshold value H.sub.out, with which the home base station and the neighbor base station determine that the mobile station moves out from the handoff region, are defined as Equation (11). H.sub.in=H.sub.in.sub.--.sub.fixed(1-CCI.pi..sub.1) H.sub.out=H.sub.out.sub.--.sub.fixed(1-CCI.pi..sub.2) (11) wherein .pi..sub.1>1, .pi..sub.2>1, and the .pi..sub.1, and .pi..sub.2 are empirical constants used for determining the threshold values. H.sub.in.sub.--.sub.fixed is a fixed signal strength value used for determining that a mobile station moves in a handoff region, and H.sub.out.sub.--.sub.fixed is a fixed signal strength value used for determining that the mobile station moves out from the handoff region. This calculation can be equally applied to the home base station and the neighbor base station, or can be independently applied to the home base station and the neighbor base station.



After receiving the SSI.sub.h, SSI.sub.t, CCI.sub.h, and CCI.sub.t values and fully determining their corresponding threshold values, the antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas in the handoff region. Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 4, if SSI.sub.t>H.sub.in.sup.t and SSI.sub.h<H.sub.in.sup.h, the antenna reselect controller 24 determines that the mobile station is in a handoff state, determining that the mobile station has moved in the handoff region, and determines to perform a transmission antenna reselecting process according thereto. If SSI.sub.t>H.sub.out.sup.t and SSI.sub.h<H.sub.out.sup.h, the antenna reselect controller 24 determines that the mobile station is not in a handoff state, determining that the mobile station has moved out from the handoff region, and determines to perform a transmission antenna reselecting process according thereto.



The method in which the antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas includes a method that uses the antenna configuration information between a mobile station and a base station as follows.



A description will now be made of another method for determining whether to reselect transmission antennas when a mobile station moves in a handoff region.



The antenna reselect controller 24 performs the measurement needed for an antenna reselecting process. Thereafter, the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates the channel performance information L.sub.current for the best antenna configuration between the home base station to which the mobile station is currently connected, and the mobile station. In addition, the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates a channel performance matrix L.sub.target(k) for all of the other antenna configurations related to the home base station and neighbor base stations, which can be connected to the mobile station in the handoff region, and the mobile station. As a result, if max.sub.k L.sub.target(k)>L.sub.current+.delta., the antenna reselect controller 24 determines that the mobile station is in the handoff state, and determines to reselect transmission antennas according thereto. Herein, .delta. is a threshold value indicating that a mobile station has moved into a handoff region. The measurement needed for the antenna reselecting process performed by the antenna reselect controller 24 is not separately performed by the antenna reselect controller 24 to substantially determine whether to reselect transmission antennas, but is merely provided to describe the method for determining whether to reselect transmission antennas on an overall basis. The measurement needed for the antenna reselecting process is substantially performed by the parameter measurer 22, and it is preferable that the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates L.sub.current and L.sub.target(k) using the channel quality parameter previously measured by the parameter measurer 22 only when it is necessary to determine whether to reselect transmission antennas.



Similarly, a description will now be made of a process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas when the mobile station moves out from the handoff region.



The antenna reselect controller 24 performs the measurement needed for an antenna reselecting process. Thereafter, the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates a channel performance matrix L.sub.current(k) for the best antenna configuration between a mobile station and base stations in the current handoff region. In addition, the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates the channel performance information L.sub.target for the best antenna configuration between a mobile station and base stations outside the handoff region. As a result, if L.sub.target>max.sub.k L.sub.current(k)+.delta., the antenna reselect controller 24 determines that the mobile station is not in the handoff state, and determines to reselect transmission antennas according thereto. Herein, .delta. is a threshold value indicating that a mobile station has moved into a handoff region. Like in the case where the mobile station moves into the handoff region, the measurement needed for the antenna reselecting process performed by the antenna reselect controller 24 is not separately performed by the antenna reselect controller 24 to substantially determine whether to reselect transmission antennas, but is merely provided to describe the method for determining whether to reselect the transmission antennas on an overall basis. The measurement needed for the antenna reselecting process is substantially performed by the parameter measurer 22, and it is preferable that the antenna reselect controller 24 calculates L.sub.current(k) and L.sub.target using the channel quality parameter previously measured by the parameter measurer 22 only when it is necessary to determine whether to reselect transmission antennas.



In the method where the antenna reselect controller 24 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas using antenna configuration information between a mobile station and base stations, the antenna reselect controller 24 should calculate yields for all of the antenna configurations between the mobile station and the base stations when calculating the channel performance matrix L.sub.current(k) and the L.sub.current(k). However, in order to reduce the complexity needed for the calculation, a transmission antenna reselecting process described below is first performed to change an antenna configuration such that the calculation can be exclusively performed on the reselected transmission antennas.



Finally, a description will be made of a method in which the antenna reselect controller 24 reselects transmission antennas of base stations connected to a mobile station in a handoff region.



A transmission antenna reselecting process reselects optimal transmission antennas for sets of all of the available transmission antennas of the neighbor base stations as well as a home base station, to be connected to a plurality of antennas of a mobile station, in the case where it is necessary to change a channel due to a variation in the performance of a currently connected channel, including a handoff case.



Assume that a set of reselectable transmission antennas and base stations to which the reselectable transmission antennas belong is S. The antenna reselect controller 24 estimates the performance R(s) for each transmission antenna s in the set S, and selects a transmission antenna with max.sub.s in SR(s) as an optimal transmission antenna.



For example, when performance of a transmission antenna is estimated in an SNR, the antenna reselect controller 24 determines an SNR, SNR.sub.i[k], for a k.sup.th tone, i.e. k.sup.th subcarrier, and an i.sup.th data stream, for a given subset for a transmission antenna s in the S. In addition, the antenna reselect controller 24 selects the optimal transmission antennas in a ratio of an SNR for each antenna subset in the S. Herein, an average, a minimum ratio, or an outage ratio can be used for the ratio.



The most important factor in this transmission antenna reselecting process is the number of sets that should be searched as the optimal selection. Although the transmission antenna reselecting process selects a transmission antenna subset having the optimal performance from all of the possible transmission antenna subsets, the present invention is characterized by reducing the complexity of the transmission antenna reselecting process by reducing a size of the subset to be selected. For example, the antenna reselect controller 24 selects random transmission antenna subsets from among the transmission antenna subsets selectable in the handoff region. Alternatively, there is a method for defining the transmission antenna subsets to be used in the handoff region and for fixing a transmission antenna subset to be selected so that transmission antennas should be selected with only the corresponding subset. As another example, if a neighbor base station supports one data stream, the neighbor base station selects a predetermined transmission antenna or a random transmission antenna, and if a neighbor base station transmits a signal with two transmission antennas, it uses two transmission antennas having the least correlation. Such decorrelating subsets can be preset, thereby reducing the number of searchable subsets. The transmission antenna subset information can be pre stored in the storage 21, can be received from the base stations, or can be experimentally determined in the mobile station through measurements.



For example, a method for reducing the complexity of the transmission antenna reselecting process when selecting optimal transmission antennas from among the antennas of the base station A and the base station B in the handoff region described with reference to FIG. 3 can be divided into the following four methods. A first method searches for a set having the best yield from among all of the possible sets of the antennas of the base station A and the base station B. This method includes a case where only the antennas included in the base station A are selected, and/or another case where only the antennas included in the base station B are selected. In this method, the transmission antenna algorithm is most complex but has best performance. A second method unconditionally selects both of the antennas of the base station A and the antennas of the base station B, and then searches for an antenna set having the best yield. A third method unconditionally selects both of the antennas of the base station A and the antennas of the base station B, and then randomly selects one of the possible antenna sets. A fourth method unconditionally selects both of the antennas of the base station A and the antennas of the base station B, and previously fixes an antenna set to be used for a handoff.



A description will now be made of a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas to which the mobile station according to the first embodiment of the present invention is applied.



With reference to FIG. 5, a description will first be made of a base station corresponding to the mobile station according to the first embodiment.



As illustrated in FIG. 5, a base station includes an antenna reselect scheduler 52, an antenna reselect manager 53, and a channel information processor 54.



The channel information processor 54 determines if there is a change in channel quality such as an SNR average and data throughput for the channels, according to a measured channel quality parameter value received from the feedback signal generator 25 of the mobile station. The channel information processor 54 delivers information on the reselected transmission antennas and information on neighbor base stations including the reselected transmission antennas, received from the feedback signal generator 25 of the mobile station, to the antenna reselect manager 53. When the transmission antennas should be reselected, the channel information processor 54 delivers the information on the reselected transmission antennas to the antenna reselect scheduler 52.



The antenna reselect manager 53 transmits a transmission antenna reselect request to a neighbor base station based on the information provided from the channel information manager 54. In response, an antenna reselect scheduler 52 of the neighbor base station determines whether to approve the transmission antenna reselect request received from a home base station, and transmits the result to the home base station. A criterion for the determination includes the system traffic, a service quality request, the reselected antenna, etc.



When transmission antennas should be reselected, the antenna reselect scheduler 52 receives from the channel information processor 54 the information on the transmission antennas to be connected to the mobile station, and allocates corresponding transmission antennas to the mobile station.



Data from the antenna reselect manager 53 and the antenna reselect scheduler 52 undergoes Medium Access Control (MAC) processing, modulation, multiplexing, Inverse Fast Fourier Transform (IFFT) and guard interval insertion, before being transmitted.



With reference to FIG. 6, a description will now be made of a method for reselecting transmission antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas according to the first embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 6 is a signaling diagram illustrating a method for connecting two reception antennas of a mobile station 30 to reselected transmission antennas on the assumption that the transmission antennas reselected in the mobile station 30 including the two reception antennas include a transmission antenna of a base station A which is a home base station and a transmission antenna of a base station B which is a neighbor base station as illustrated in FIG. 3.



In step S61, the mobile station transmits a measured channel quality parameter value, the information on the reselected transmission antennas and the information on the neighbor base stations including the reselected transmission antennas to the base station A. Herein, because the reselected transmission antennas include a transmission antenna of the base station A which is a home base station and a transmission antenna of the base station B which is a neighbor base station, the information on neighbor base stations includes information on the base station A and the base station B.



In step S62, based on the information on reselected transmission antennas and the information on neighbor base stations including reselected transmission antennas, the base station A transmits a transmission antenna reselect request to the base station B.



In step S63, the base station B transmits to the base station A an approval message indicating an approval for the transmission antenna reselect request, if it can provide a service with the reselected transmission antenna.



In step S64, the base station A forwards data to the base station B upon receiving the approval message. The forwarded data includes the data that the mobile station should currently receive through a forward link. The reason for forwarding the data is because as connections between the mobile station and the reselected transmission antennas have not been completed yet, the other party in communication with the mobile station transmits the data only to the base station A. Thus, the base station A should forward the data to the base station B in order to enable the base station B to transmit the data to the mobile station.



In step S65, the base station A transmits a transmission antenna reselect command to the mobile station.



In step S66, the mobile station transmits to the base station A and the base station B information on the transmission antennas reselected through a transmission antenna reselecting process.



In step S67, the base station A and the base station B individually transmit data to the mobile station using the corresponding transmission antennas based on the information on the reselected transmission antennas. In step S68, the base station A transmits an approval message for transmission antenna reselection to the mobile station. Then the mobile station releases the connections to the transmission antennas to which current channels are formed, and forms new channels to the reselected transmission antennas. It is possible to enable parallel concurrent transmission by using a data channel in step S67 and a control channel in step S68.



The mobile station can continuously receive data from the base station A which is a home base station even while connecting with the reselected transmission antennas.



Second Embodiment



A second embodiment of the present invention provides a system and method in which a base station performs a process of reselecting the transmission antennas to be connected to a plurality of reception antennas of a mobile station. In particular, the second embodiment provides a system and method in which a home base station performs a transmission antenna reselecting process.



With reference to FIG. 7, a description will now be made of a structure of a mobile station according to the second embodiment of the present invention.



Referring to FIG. 7, a mobile station includes a parameter measurer 71 and a feedback signal generator 72.



The parameter measurer 71 measures a channel quality parameter, an index based used to estimate the performance of channels connected to the home base station and the neighbor base stations. It is preferable to periodically perform the measurement on the channel quality parameter. Alternatively, the measurement on the channel quality parameter can be performed upon certain occasions. For example, the measured channel quality parameter includes noise power, signal power, correlation feature, RSSI, C/I, SNR, and SINR. A detailed method for measuring the channel quality parameter by the parameter measurer 71 is to the same as the method for measuring the channel quality parameter by the parameter measurer 22 in the first embodiment, so a detailed description thereof will be omitted herein.



The feedback signal generator 72 quantizes the channel quality parameter measured by the parameter measurer 71, and transmits the quantization results to the home base station.



With reference to FIG. 8, a description will now be made of a base station that performs a transmission antenna reselecting process when there is a variation in channel performance due to movement of a mobile station in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas according to the second embodiment of the present invention.



Referring to FIG. 8, a base station includes an antenna reselect scheduler 81, an antenna reselect manager 82, a channel information processor 83, and a storage 84.



The storage 84 stores a candidate list of the neighbor base stations. Because each base station is essentially fixed in its position, the storage 84 is apt to have information on the neighbor base stations, which is usually not changed. The candidate list of neighbor base stations include the IDs of the base stations, the number of transmission antennas provided by a corresponding base station, and the information on the transmission antennas which can be reselected according to the present invention.



Even in the second embodiment, the neighbor base stations include the home base station. For example, it is noted from FIG. 3 that the mobile station 30 communicates with a base station A, which is a home base station, and a base station B, which is a neighbor base station, in the handoff region 37. Even though the mobile station is located in the handoff region, all of the transmission antennas selected in a transmission antenna reselecting process can be either the transmission antennas of the home base station or the transmission antennas of the neighbor base stations according to channel performance.



The channel information processor 83 generates information based on which performance of respective channels can be estimated, using the measured channel quality parameter value received from the feedback signal generator 72 of the mobile station.



The antenna reselect manager 82 has a threshold value used to determined whether to reselect transmission antennas, for the channel performance estimation information generated by the channel information processor 83. Based on the threshold value, the antenna reselect manager 82 determines whether to reselect transmission antennas based on whether the channel performance estimation information is greater or less than the threshold value. A process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas by the antenna reselect the manager 82 is that same as the process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas by the antenna reselect controller 24 in the first embodiment, so a detailed description thereof will be omitted herein.



If it is determined that the transmission antennas should be reselected, the antenna reselect manager 82 transmits a transmission antenna reselect request to a neighbor base station by consulting the information stored in the storage 84. In response, an antenna reselect manager 82 of the neighbor base station determines whether to approve the transmission antenna reselect request received from a home base station, and transmits the result to the home base station. A criterion for the determination includes the system traffic, a service quality request, a reselected antenna, etc.



Upon receiving an approval for a handoff request from the neighbor base station, the antenna reselect manager 82 commands the antenna reselect scheduler 81 to reselect transmission antennas to be connected to the mobile station.



Then the antenna reselect scheduler 81 reselects the transmission antennas based on the channel performance estimation information generated by the channel information processor 83 and the candidate list of neighbor base stations. The antenna reselect scheduler 81 transmits to the corresponding neighbor base station the information on the reselected transmission antennas. A process of reselecting the transmission antennas by the antenna reselect scheduler 81 is to the same as the process of reselecting transmission antennas by the antenna reselect controller 24 in the first embodiment, so a detailed description thereof will be omitted herein.



In response, an antenna reselect scheduler 81 of the neighbor base station transmits an approval message to the home base station if it can provide a service with a corresponding transmission antenna indicated by the information on the selected transmission antennas, received from the home base station. Thereafter, the antenna reselect scheduler 81 of the neighbor base station allocates the corresponding transmission antenna to the mobile station and communicates with the mobile station using the allocated transmission antenna.



In the second embodiment of the present invention, the transmission antenna reselecting process is performed by the antenna reselect scheduler 81 of the base station and its preceding process of determining whether to reselect transmission antennas is performed by the antenna reselect manager 82 of the base station.



Data from the antenna reselect manager 82 and the antenna reselect scheduler 81 undergoes MAC processing, modulation, multiplexing, IFFT, and guard interval insertion, before being transmitted.



With reference to FIG. 9, a description will now be made of a method for reselecting the transmission antennas in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas according to the second embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 9 is a signaling diagram illustrating a method for connecting two reception antennas of a mobile station 30 to the reselected transmission antennas on the assumption that the reselected transmission antennas include a transmission antenna of a base station A, which is a home base station, and a transmission antenna of a base station B, which is a neighbor base station, as illustrated in FIG. 3.



In step S91, the mobile station transmits the measured channel quality parameter value to the base station A.



In step S92, the base station A determines whether to reselect transmission antennas through the antenna reselect manager 82. In step S93, if it is determined that the transmission antennas should be reselected, the base station A transmits a transmission antenna reselect request to the base station B including the reselected transmission antenna. At this point, because the base station A which is the home base station also includes the reselected transmission antenna, all of the commands, the information and the messages transmitted from the home base station to the base station B are processed in the home base station itself. Therefore, this operation will be omitted from the drawing. The operation is applied in the same way even in the following process.



In step S94, the base station B transmits an approval message indicating approval for the transmission antenna reselect request to the base station A, if it can provide a service with the reselected transmission antenna.



In step S95, upon receiving the approval message the base station A forwards data to the base station B. The forwarded data includes the data that the mobile station should currently receive through a forward link. The reason for forwarding the data is because as the connections between the mobile station and the reselected transmission antennas have not been completed yet, the other party in communication with the mobile station transmits the data only to the base station A. Thus, the base station A should forward the data to the base station B in order to enable the base station B to transmit the data to the mobile station.



The base station A performs a transmission antenna reselect process in step S96, and transmits to the base station B the information on the transmission antennas reselected through the transmission antenna reselect process in step S97.



Then the base station B transmits an approval message for the reselected transmission antennas in step S98, and allocates the corresponding transmission antennas to the mobile station in step S99. Then the mobile station releases connections to the transmission antennas to which current channels are formed, and forms new channels to the reselected transmission antennas.



The transmission antennas reselected in step S96 include an antenna of the base station A which is a home base station. The base station A processes the information on the reselected transmission antennas to be connected to the mobile station by itself in step S97, and also performs approval processing on the reselected transmission antennas by itself in step S98.



The mobile station can continuously receive data from the base station A which is a home base station even while connecting with the reselected transmission antennas.



As described above, the present invention reselects a plurality of antennas of the base stations connected to a mobile station according to channel performance in a cellular mobile communication system using multiple antennas, thereby maintaining the optimal channel state and thus providing high-quality multimedia service.



In addition, the present invention separates the transmission antennas as far as possible using a plurality of antennas, thereby reducing the correlation between the transmission antennas. The reduction in the antenna correlation that considerably affects performance of a multiantenna system and a reduction in the spatial correlation effect contribute to an increase in system capacity, link throughput, and other performances.



While the invention has been shown and described with reference to a certain preferred embodiment thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

PatentNumber=7869397,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



The present invention relates to communication network protocols for medium access. In particular, the present invention relates to communication network protocols in the context of a wireless medium and in the context of communication networks that utilize fixed minimum packet sizes.



Data communications devices (DCDs) on certain common types of network must share the communication medium. The function of a medium access control (MAC) protocol is to allow each DCD the opportunity to seize the medium to transmit its data according to the rules of the protocol. In order to facilitate effective data communications, the opportunities to transmit should occur such that the wait time between opportunities is not excessive. In addition, access to the medium should be distributed fairly among the DCDs. A number of MAC protocols have been developed and fielded in wired networks.



These protocols include ALOHA, slotted-ALOHA, CSMA, and CSMA-CD. The ALOHA system is described in N. Abramson, "The ALOHA System--Another Alternative for Computer Communications," 1970 Fall Joint Computer Conference, AFIPS Conference Proceedings, Vol. 37, AFIPS Press, Montvale N.J., 1970, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. CSMA and CSMA-CD systems are described in Anthony S. Acampora, "An Introduction to Broadband Networks," Plenum Press, New York, N.Y., 1994, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.



ALOHA and slotted-ALOHA are random access schemes that could be adapted fairly easily to wireless networks. However, these MAC protocols suffer from poor maximum bus utilization.



While CSMA and CSMA-CD exhibit much better bus utilization, these protocols are much better suited to wired networks than wireless for the following reason: The operation of both CSMA and CSMA-CD depend upon each DCD in the network being able to sense when any of the other DCDs is transmitting. A DCD only transmits when it has determined that the bus is not currently in use by another DCD. This requirement becomes problematic in a wireless network since it often occurs that not every DCD in the network is within range of all the others.



FIG. 1 depicts a simple wireless network 100 with 3 DCDs 102. B communicates with both A and C. A and C are separated by too large a distance to detect when the other is transmitting, and are therefore obviously unable to communicate directly. To illustrate the problem that can arise, suppose A is transmitting to B. Since C cannot detect A's transmissions, it will mistakenly assume that the medium is not being used. Then, suppose that C, mistakenly believing that the bus is idle, attempts to transmit a message to B. As a result, a data collision occurs at B and the messages transmitted by both A and C are corrupted or one of the messages is lost. A situation such as this is commonly referred to as the "hidden terminal problem."



FIG. 2 depicts a solution to the hidden terminal problem. A wireless network 200 includes several DCDs 202 and a specialized central DCD 204, also referred to as an access point (AP) 204. Each DCD 202 communicates through AP 204. AP 204 allocates the use of the medium by all DCDs 202 making up the network. In order to be integrated into the network configuration, any remote DCD 202 must be within the coverage area of AP 204. This ensures that DCD 202 is able to receive, and will therefore adhere to, the commands issued by AP 204 concerning use of the medium.



MAC protocols using this network architecture have been implemented for cellular communication systems, wherein the base stations serve as APs and the cellular phones serve as the DCDs. However, because the nature of voice traffic is quasi-continuous and relatively low bandwidth, cellular MAC protocols are designed with circuit-switched channel assignments. The available spectrum is divided into frequency channels and/or time slots and/or spread spectrum spreading code channels that are assigned to a user for the duration of a call, regardless of whether there is any voice activity. This type of MAC protocol is inefficient in a typical computer or multi-media network due to the inherently bursty nature of its traffic. Exchanging bursty traffic over a circuit-switched network results in the circuit-switched connections frequently sitting idle.



With a demand-assigned protocol, usage of the bus is allocated dynamically by a bus arbiter according to the traffic demands of each DCD on the network. One example of a demand assigned MAC protocol is DQRUMA which is described in Mark J. Karol, Zhao Liu, and Kai Y. Eng, "An Efficient Demand-Assignment Multiple Access Protocol for Wireless Packet Networks". ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks, Vol. 1, No. 3, pp. 267-279, 1995, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. Under this protocol, each DCD that has data to transmit notifies the AP. Any DCDs needing to use the bus submit their requests during a predefined, regularly reoccurring, time period called the request access (RA) slot. Whenever more than one DCD submits a request during the predefined period, all those requests are lost in a collision. In effect, the access request process operates like a slotted-ALOHA system, i.e., time-aligned random-access transmissions.



Upon receiving a valid access request, the AP sends back an acknowledgement message, and places the terminal's ID in a queue with other DCDs whose access requests were received but that have not yet been able to complete their transmissions. The AP manages the queue according to any one of many possible assignment algorithms. The AP notifies a given DCD shortly before its turn to use the bus. The DCD then uses the bus for a fixed, and reasonably short, period of time. If the DCD hasn't finished transmitting all of its data at the end of its allotted bus access period, it tacks a "piggyback request" onto the end of its transmission. The piggyback request lets the AP know that the DCD that just finished transmitting needs the bus again. This is equivalent to submitting a contention-free access request, helping to complete transfers which have already started. In addition, the piggyback request scheme significantly reduces the number of DCDs contending for access in the RA slot.



A demand-assigned protocol such as DQRUMA possesses many desirable features for a wireless data network as has just been described. However, it also possesses several undesirable qualities making it difficult to implement on many wireless networks. For instance, DQRUMA assumes the existence of simultaneous parallel uplink (traffic going into the AP) and downlink (traffic coming out of the AP) channels between the AP and the DCDs. If the parallel channels each have equal capacity, the bus can only operate at maximum efficiency when traffic into and out of the AP is perfectly balanced between uplink and downlink. Whenever the traffic is not balanced, one of the channels must operate below capacity. It is difficult, if not impossible, to reallocate bandwidth between the uplink and downlink channels in response to varying loads.



The only practical way to obtain two simultaneous channels in a wireless system is through frequency division duplexing (FDD), i.e., uplink traffic resides on one carrier frequency and downlink traffic resides on another. Often, frequency spectrum allocations for a given application do not lend themselves to the implementation of FDD systems. Unless the uplink and downlink frequency bands can be separated (into non-contiguous blocks) the analog filtering (diplexer) requirements for the wireless transceiver become extremely difficult if one is to avoid wasting a large portion of the spectrum.



In DQRUMA, requests for access to the bus, and the acknowledgements of those requests, are relatively short messages. The DQRUMA protocol is designed to use short requests and acknowledgement messages and longer data packets. However, in certain systems, such as networks that employ OFDM (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing), it is difficult to vary the size of the message bursts. Unless the data bursts in the system are very small, using the same size bursts to transmit access requests and acknowledgements will result in a many unused data bit in those bursts, adversely impacting spectral efficiency.



Furthermore, once a DCD has received an acknowledgement of its access request, it must continually listen to messages from the AP as it waits its turn to use the bus. This is a significant disadvantage for portable wireless DCDs, where battery life is a major consideration.



A medium access protocol for wired networks has been proposed in which multiple DCDs transmit overlapping messages during a single OFDM burst in such a way that the AP correctly receives each of the individual messages. See K. S. Jacobsen, J. A. C. Bingham, and J. M. Cioffi, "A Discrete Multitone-based Network Protocol for Multipoint-to-point Digital Communications in the CATV Reverse Channel," in 1995 Canadian Cable Television Association (CCTA) Technical Papers, May 1995, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. However, for this method to work properly, the AP must have knowledge of the channel between itself and each DCD transmitting the message. To obtain this channel knowledge, a separate channel training routine is executed, with the AP storing the channel measurements for later use. This is a workable solution for the time invariant (or very slowly varying) cable television channels contemplated by Jacobsen, et al.



However, in a wireless network the channel changes so rapidly that each message transmitted by a DCD propagates through an essentially unknown channel before reaching the AP. The Jacobsen, et al. method is thus unusable in the wireless context.



What is needed is a MAC protocol that efficiently accommodates fixed minimum packet sizes in a wireless contexts and that furthermore allows the DCD to deactivate its idle circuitry during bursts in which it neither transmits nor receives.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The present invention provides a medium access contention protocol that is highly beneficial in wireless networks and particularly in wireless networks that employ a fixed minimum burst size such as OFDM wireless networks. In one embodiment, a MAC protocol according to the present invention is a demand-assigned protocol that maximizes utilization of the bus medium (the allocated frequency spectrum.) Each data communication device (DCD) in the network communicates with a central access point (AP). The AP is responsible for assigning usage of the bus.



Multiple DCDs may request access from the AP in the same request access (RA) burst. Each of the multiple DCDs transmits its access request to the AP within a channel in the RA burst that does not interfere with other channels used by the other DCDs requesting access. Each DCD includes channel training information in the access request burst to allow the AP and/or DCD to adapt to rapid variations in channel characteristics. Once the AP has determined and distributed a schedule for access requests, individual DCDs may idle themselves during periods when they are scheduled for either transmission or reception.



A first aspect of the present invention provides a method for sharing access to a common wireless medium in a wireless communication system. The method includes a step of transmitting an access request burst from a plurality of data communication devices to a central access point. The access request burst is divided into a plurality of OFDM tones. Each one of the plurality of data communications devices transmits using only a subgroup of the plurality of OFDM tones. The method further includes a step of receiving the access request burst at the central access point. In response to receipt of the access request burst at the central access point, the plurality of data communication devices are scheduled for access to the common wireless medium.



A second aspect of the present invention provides a method for operating a wireless local area network. The method includes steps of defining a burst length for communication, and transmitting bursts having the fixed burst length from a plurality of data communication devices coupled to the wireless local area network. The bursts include bursts carrying data and bursts carrying access request information.



A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the inventions herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 depicts a prior art wireless network of data communication devices.



FIG. 2 depicts a wireless network of data communication devices and a central access point that may be operated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 3 depicts an OFDM communication system that may be operated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 4A depicts portions of a data communication device or central access point according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 4B depicts an air interface frame according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 5 depicts an information burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 6 depicts an access request burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 7 depicts further details of an access request burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 8 depicts a permissions and acknowledgments burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 9 depicts a superframe including multiple air interface frames according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 10 depicts details of a special request access burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



FIG. 11 depicts further details of a special request access burst according to one embodiment of the present invention.



DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS



Exemplary Wireless System



The explanation of the present invention will assume an exemplary wireless system. Like the system depicted in FIG. 2, the exemplary wireless system includes access point 204 and multiple data communication devices 202. Data communication devices (DCDs) 202 and access point (AP) 204 each employ a orthogonal frequency division multiplexed (OFDM), radio modem to receive and transmit over the network medium. The shared network medium, also referred to as "the bus", is, in this case, the frequency spectrum allocated for the wireless network.



FIG. 3 depicts an OFDM communication system 300 that may be operated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. OFDM communication system 300 represents a combination of the transmitter side of the modem at a DCD and the receiver side of the modem at the AP, and the channel in between them. A comparable system operates on the downlink from the DCD to the AP.



A symbol mapper 302 maps data bits to M-ary QAM frequency-domain symbols, where M=2.sup.b and b is the number of bits per symbol. The QAM constellation used in the exemplary embodiment is 4-QAM in which each symbol represents 2 data bits. The number of symbols per OFDM burst is chosen to be N=2.sup.n, where N=256 in the exemplary system. The N symbols are converted to a 256-point time-domain sequence through an inverse Fast Fourier Transform (IFFT) operation by an IFFT stage 304. A cyclic prefix application stage 306 copies the last v points in the time-domain sequence and affixes the copies to the beginning of the sequence, increasing the length of the time-domain sequence to 256+v points. This operation is known as the addition of a "cyclic prefix." The motivation for employing a cyclic prefix is discussed below.



The complex digital time-domain sequence is converted to in-phase (I) and quadrature (Q) analog signals that are used to quadrature-modulate an RF carrier. The RF carrier is then radiated from a transmitter antenna. At the receiver, the signal is captured by another antenna and downconverted into I and Q baseband analog waveforms, that are then converted to digital representations with analog-to-digital converters. For simplicity, in this discussion we will consider an equivalent complex baseband channel 308 modeled as a finite impulse response (FIR) system. Adopting the baseband system model greatly simplifies the discussion. With this model, the output of the channel is given by the convolution of the complex time-domain samples with the channel impulse response, h. The length of the baseband channel is limited to L symbols, and the FIR channel is described by the channel coefficients {h.sub.0, h.sub.1, . . . , h.sub.L-1}. The channel length corresponds to the time span over which the multipath energy arrives at the receiver due to an impulse being transmitted by the transmitter.



The receiver captures the output of the channel. A separate timing adjustment circuit 310 is used to determine the first sample of each incoming burst. The cyclic prefix is removed by a cyclic prefix removal stage 312, and the remaining time-domain samples are fed into a 256-point FFT stage 314 that produces a 256-point received frequency spectrum. Given knowledge of the frequency-domain channel response H(f), each point in the received frequency-domain sequence can be corrected for the channel's amplitude scaling and phase shift at that frequency by a symbol detection stage 316. A channel estimation circuit 318 uses known training tones that are embedded in each burst to recover the complex scalars (one for each of the 256 frequency bins) describing the channel frequency response. A discussion of channel estimation methods is found in the cross-referenced SPATIO-TEMPORAL PROCESSING FOR COMMUNICATION application. Once the received frequency-domain data is corrected for the channel response, the constellation point closest to each sample is determined by symbol detection stage 316. Finally, using the same bits-to-symbol mapping as the transmitter, the output bits are produced by a bit mapper 320. It is understood that coding may also be employed in OFDM communication system 300.



The purpose of the cyclic prefix is to "orthogonalize" the channel. That is, it prevents energy from any frequency-domain symbol from interfering with any other frequency-domain symbol, even in frequency-selective channels as described in A. Peled and A. Ruiz, "Frequency domain data transmission using reduced computational complexity algorithms," IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing, Denver, Colo., April 1980, pp. 964-967, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. In order for the orthogonalization to hold, the length of the cyclic prefix must equal or exceed the length of the channel, v.gtoreq.L. The channel length is a function of the operating environment, with indoor channels typically being much shorter than outdoor channels. For example, in an office environment the duration of the impulse response is typically less than 2 microseconds. In large outdoor wireless systems, channels can reach lengths of 25 microseconds or more.



Once again considering the office environment, assuming that the sample rate of the OFDM system is 10 MHz, then the length of the channel is 20 samples. The requirement stated above regarding the minimum length of the cyclic prefix assumes perfect synchronization of the incoming signal. If any timing uncertainty exists, as it does with any practical system, the length of the cyclic prefix can be increased to account for the maximum timing error. Assume that the timing error is .+-.3 samples. Then the length of the cyclic prefix must be .gtoreq.26 samples.



The maximum number of data bits per transmission is given by bN=512. The actual number will be lower because a number of the N frequency-domain symbols are reserved for channel training tones. Many MAC protocols for wired systems use short transmissions for bus monitoring and control. In a wireless network one might also desire the ability to send brief transmissions for monitoring and control while maintaining the ability to transmit longer bursts for data. A scheme such as this tends to optimize efficient use of the bus resource. Of course when sending fewer data bits per burst, a corresponding shorter duration transmission is expected. In an OFDM system, this is inconvenient since sending shorter and longer bursts requires both the transmitter and receiver to implement (I) FFTs of different lengths. The present invention provides a system and method for sending brief messages in an efficient manner and one which does not require more than a single-length (I) FFT implementation.



Top Level MAC Protocol and Apparatus



FIG. 4A depicts portions of a data communication device or central access point according to one embodiment of the present invention. An OFDM modem 322 includes the transmitter and receiver circuitry discussed with reference to FIG. 3. A MAC processor 324 is responsible for implementing a MAC protocol as will be described. The operation of MAC processor 324 will of course depend on whether it is incorporated within a DCD 202 or within AP 204. MAC processor 324 exchanges protocol-related information with OFDM modem 322. A power control processor 326, typically incorporated only within DCD 202, turns off portions of DCD 202 when no access to the wireless medium is scheduled as determined by the operation of MAC processor 324.



Preferably, central AP 204 controls usage of the network medium. By requiring DCDs 202 to synchronize to AP 204 prior to transmitting any signals, the hidden terminal problem is eliminated.



A top level schedule for use of the medium by DCDs 202 and AP 204 is defined by a MAC protocol data structure referred to as an Air Interface Frame. FIG. 4B depicts an AIF 400 according to one embodiment of the present invention. AP 204 transmits a predetermined waveform during a Synchronization (SYNC) burst 402. Each DCD 202 uses SYNC burst 402 for frequency and timing acquisition. SYNC burst 402 is a physical layer burst.



A Permission and Acknowledgement (P&A) burst 406 follows SYNC burst 402. After P&A burst 406, there are 32 INFO bursts 408 carrying data. The function of P&A burst 406 is twofold: to acknowledge which access requests were received in a previous RA burst 404, and to broadcast the assignment of each INFO burst 408 within the current frame 400. P&A burst 406 is a MAC layer burst while INFO bursts 408 are physical layer bursts.



During Request Access (RA) burst 404, any of DCDs 202 needing to use the bus may transmit an access request. Since DCDs 202 submit access requests without coordination, the possibility of collisions exists within RA burst 404. The present invention provides multiple channels for simultaneous access requests during RA burst 404. This reduces the probability of collisions and makes more access request opportunities available without reducing efficiency. RA burst 404 is a MAC layer burst.



When a DCD 202 initially contacts AP 204, AP 204 responds with a timing adjustment command. This is required because, even though DCD 202 has synchronized itself to the AP 204's transmissions, range uncertainty can cause messages transmitted by different DCDs to overlap upon arrival at AP 204. It is advantageous to set aside initial access intervals in which poorly aligned transmissions from DCDs 202 that haven't yet adjusted their timing do not interfere with other messages on the bus. Additional guard time can be used in conjunction with selected RA bursts 404 to accommodate the range uncertainty associated with DCDs 202 initially accessing the network. The approach described herein results in increased efficiency because the parallel RA channels all share the added guard time. In a conventional system, additional guard time is required for each RA channel.



After RA burst 404, AP 204 transmits by communicating the usage of INFO bursts 408 within the frame in advance, those DCDs 202 not scheduled to transmit or receive during the frame may disable unused circuitry until the next SYNC burst 402. Disabling idle circuits is a valuable strategy to extend battery life in portable DCDs 202.



This MAC protocol is designed to operate over a single bi-directional bus the usage of which is divided into multiple bursts. Unlike many wireless MAC protocols, the MAC protocol described herein does not typically require that information emanating from AP 204 be transmitted in one portion of the spectrum, and information flowing into AP 204 be transmitted in another portion of the spectrum. This results in AP 204 being able to allocate usage of the medium such that the bus utilization remains high even when the AP traffic is asymmetrical (with respect to the AP).



Thus, AIF 400 includes 35 bursts. Of the 35 bursts, one burst is dedicated to physical layer functions, 32 bursts are dedicated to data link layer functions, and two bursts are dedicated to MAC layer functions. The 32 Information (INFO) bursts 408 may be transmitted by either AP 204 or a particular DCD 202 and carry primarily payload. Usage of INFO bursts 408 is controlled by AP 204 in response to varying traffic loads on the bus.



In RA burst 404, P&A burst 406, and INFO bursts 408, a certain number of symbols are reserved for training and carry no payload data. For channel estimation, the number of symbols used for training should equal or exceed the length of the longest channel in which the system is expected to operate. In a preferred embodiment, 32 frequency-domain symbols are set aside for training, leaving 224 frequency domain symbols (448 bits) to carry information in each burst. The 448 bits in MAC-layer and INFO bursts are divided amongst several fields.



Internal Burst Structure



FIG. 5 depicts an INFO burst 408 according to one embodiment of the present invention. INFO burst 408 includes 4 major fields: HDR 502, Data 504, PGBK506, and FEC 508. The 11-bit HDR (header) field 502 carries data link layer information including the message type and message sequencing information. The 384-bit Data field 504 carries user payload. The 5-bit PGBK field 506 is used to implement the MAC-layer Piggyback function. With this field, a DCD 202 informs AP 204 whether or not it has additional data to transmit. DCD 202 writes the number of additional bursts it needs (from 1 to 31, in binary representation) in PGBK field 506. DCD 202 writes 5 zeros into PGBK field 506 to tell AP 204 that it has no pending data to send once the current transmission is finished. The last field in INFO burst 408 is FEC (forward error correction) field 508. The 6-byte FEC field 508 carries redundant information derived from the other 50 bytes in the burst. The redundant information is exploited to correct data errors when they occur in transmission. The FEC coding employed could be any one of several techniques, however a byte-based Reed-Solomon code is a very efficient error-correction technique for a 448-bit codeword. In the exemplary embodiment, 6-byte FEC field 508 allows up to 3 incorrectly received bytes within the burst to be corrected.



FIG. 6 depicts RA burst 404 according to one embodiment of the present invention. RA burst 404 contains 190 bits that are divided into 5 identical fields 602. In this exemplary embodiment, up to 5 DCDs 202 can submit 38-bit access request messages during RA burst 404. Each of the parallel access request opportunities within a burst is referred to as an "RA channel." The unique design of RA burst 404 enables simultaneous access attempts to be heard by AP 204 thereby reducing contention among network DCDs 202. Furthermore, the design allows a burst large enough to carry data to be used for bus control functions without sacrificing efficiency and preserving the use of a single-length (I) FFT throughout the system.



In an OFDM system, the tones within a burst are substantially independent from one another, i.e., no inter-carrier interference is produced. This property is exploited to create the parallel RA channels within the RA burst. This is accomplished by dividing the burst's tones into 5 mutually exclusive subsets. Each subset of tones constitutes one RA channel. Those tones that are not assigned to a given RA channel are not energized by the DCD using that particular RA channel. That is, a frequency-domain symbol of zero magnitude is transmitted on those tones belonging to all other RA channels.



FIG. 7 depicts the division of the tones of RA burst 404 into the five channels 602. The tones associated with each RA channel 602 are made up of data tones (D.sub.i) and training tones (T.sub.i), where i denotes the RA channel number. Tones with zero energy are labeled with "0". For simplicity, only the first and fifth RA channels are shown.



While the data tones may be grouped in virtually any manner deemed convenient, for best performance the training tones should span the OFDM burst and be spaced at constant intervals if the minimum number of training tones is to be used. FIG. 7 assumes that 32 tones are required to characterize the channel. The i.sup.th RA channel uses tones n=i+8k, k=0, 1, . . . , 31, for training. The available data tones are assigned to the 5 RA channels in sequential fashion. Note that because the 256 tones in the RA burst do not divide equally into the 5 RA channels 602, tone number 256 is unused. Each RA channel 602 includes 19 data tones that carry information with 2 bits per tone. This configuration results in a 38-bit RA channel.



With this approach, 5 DCDs 202 each using a different RA channel 602 can transmit simultaneously during the RA burst without interfering with one another. The AP processes the RA burst in the usual fashion up through FFT stage 314. Then the frequency domain tones are separated into the 5 sets of tones corresponding to the 5 RA channels. Using the i.sup.th set of training tones (T.sub.i), the channel response vector h that corresponds to the i.sup.th RA channel is estimated separately. The channel response estimate for the i.sup.th channel is applied to the set of RA channel data tones (D.sub.i) to recover the data bits that were sent on the i.sup.th RA channel. This process is repeated for i=1, 2, . . . , 5.



This burst sharing technique is thus applicable to time-varying channels such as wireless channels because the training tones are distributed through each access request burst. Since access requests are generated randomly by the DCDs, the most efficient way to perform the channel training is to embed training tones in each RA channel as has been described herein.



Referring once again to FIG. 6, observe that each of RA channel fields 602 is divided up into 3 sub-fields: an RID sub-field 604, a BD sub-field 606, and an FEC sub-field 608. RID sub-field 604 is used by a DCD 202 to distinguish itself as the originator of the RA submission. Each DCD 202 fills this sub-field with an identification number when transmitting in an RA channel 602. In one possible embodiment, a network administrator configures each DCD 202 that will connect to the network by assigning each a unique 17-bit ID number. Using 17 bits allows for 131,072 unique ID numbers to be used in a network.



BD sub-field 606 is used by DCD 202 to indicate the number of bursts that it wishes to use. The 5-bit field can be used to specify the desired number of bursts from 1 to 32. For example, suppose a DCD 202 has 300 bytes of data in its transmit buffer. This amount of data spans 6.25 INFO burst data fields. So, when submitting its access, the DCD would fill BD sub-field 606 with 00111 (binary 7).



FEC sub-field 608 contains redundant information based upon tRID and BD sub-fields 604 and 606. It is used to correct bit errors that may occur in transmission. With the small number of bits in each RA channel a bit-based cyclic redundancy check (CRC) coding scheme is appropriate, though other coding schemes could also be used. RA channels 602 are designed to contain a large amount of FEC redundancy to ensure robust operation of MAC layer functions.



FIG. 8 depicts P & A burst 406 according to one embodiment of the present invention. Preferably, only AP 204 is permitted to transmit during P&A burst 406 and its function is twofold. AP 204 uses this burst to acknowledge access requests received successfully during previous RA burst 404. In addition, AP 204 assigns the usage of INFO bursts 408 during the present air interface frame 400.



The first five fields 802 of P&A burst 406, ACK 1 through ACK 5, are used to acknowledge the reception of access requests from DCDs 202 which were received during previous RA burst 404. The ACK fields 802 each contain two sub-fields. The DCD's ID number (that which the DCD entered into RID field 604 of RA channel 602) is placed into a 17-bit AID sub-field 804. A DCD 202 awaiting acknowledgment of an access request monitors AID sub-fields 804 in P&A burst 406 looking for an entry that matches its own ID number. Reception of an ACK field 802 with a matching ID sub-field 804 serves as a positive acknowledgment of the DCD's access request. A TID sub-field 806 is used to carry a 9-bit temporary identification (TID) number. This number is used by one DCD 202 for the duration of an access event in which it is involved. An access event is defined to be the time from which an RA is successfully received to the time when a DCD 202 has finished sending its last burst. The last burst is sent after any piggyback requests are submitted and cleared, which can result in relatively long access events. The 9-bit TID sub-field 806 allows up to 512 access events to exist simultaneously. When a DCD 202 receives an RA acknowledgment, it records the number given in TID sub-field 806 and stores it for use throughout the duration of the access event.



The ACK fields 802 are followed by a downlink transmissions (DLTX) field 808 and eight permission-to-transmit (PTX) fields 810. The 3-bit DLTX field 808 designates the number of PTX fields 810 that correspond to downlink transmissions, beginning with PTX1. For example, if the contents of DLTX are [011], then PTX1, PTX2, and PTX3 refer to downlink transmissions while PTX4, PTX5, PTX6, PTX7, and PTX8 refer to uplink transmissions. Each PTX field 810 includes 4 sub-fields: TXID 812, NUM 814, PWRC 816, and DLY 818. TXID sub-field 812 specifies the DCD 202 involved in a given burst. The TXID number in PTX field 810 must therefore match the TID number supplied to the DCD 202 in a prior ACK field 802. If the PTX field 810 is one of the first n (where n is the number inserted into DLTX field 808) within P&A burst 406, then TXID sub-field 812 specifies the DCD 202 scheduled to receive a downlink transmission. If the PTX field 810 is not one of the first n, then the TXID sub-field 812 specifies the DCD 202 that is to transmit an uplink message. NUM field 814 specifies the number of consecutive INFO bursts 408 to be received (or transmitted) by DCD 202 specified in TXID sub-field 812. In order to illustrate the function of P&A burst 406, consider the example given in Table 1 and Table 2. The values in the pertinent fields in an exemplary P&A burst 406 are given in Table 1. The corresponding usage of the frames INFO bursts is given in Table 2.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 SELECTED FIELD ENTRIES FROM AN EXEMPLARY P&A BURST. Field (Sub-Field), Value (Sub-Field), Value DLTX 3 PTX 1 TXID, 4 NUM, 2 PTX 2 TXID, 473 NUM, 10 PTX 3 TXID, 85 NUM, 3 PTX 4 TXID, 62 NUM, 5 PTX 5 TXID, 4 NUM, 12 PTX 6 TXID, 0 NUM, 0 PTX 7 TXID, 0 NUM, 0 PTX 8 TXID, 0 NUM, 0



TABLE-US-00002 TABLE 2 CORRESPONDING INFO BURST USAGE. INFO Burst Number DCD TID Number DCD State 1, 2 4 Receiving 3-12 473 Receiving 13-15 85 Receiving 16-20 62 Transmitting 21-32 4 Transmitting



The design of P&A burst 406 permits a DCD 202 to determine precisely whether it will be involved in the exchange of each INFO burst 408 in AIF 400. PWRC sub-field 816 is used to facilitate power control. This 2-bit sub-field 816 is used to instruct the DCD 202 specified in the ID sub-field to increment, decrement, or leave unchanged its RF output power. Likewise, DLY sub-field 818 is used to instruct the DCD to advance, retard, or leave unchanged, the timing of its burst transmissions.



If eight PTX fields 810 are not sufficient to schedule all 32 bursts in AIF 400, then a P+ bit 820 is asserted. This indicates that a second P&A burst 406 immediately follows the usual P&A burst, thereby supplanting the first INFO burst 408. A 2-bit RSVD field 822 that is reserved for future use follows the P+ field. A last field (FEC) 824 contains 96 forward error correction bits. A large number of FEC bits are included in P&A burst 406 to help ensure the integrity of the MAC layer operations which are critical to robust system operation.



The structure of P&A burst 406 enables implementation of a "sleep mode" feature. After receiving and decoding P&A burst(s) 406, each DCD 202 knows during which, if any, of INFO bursts 408 within AIF 400 it will be receiving or transmitting. For those bursts in which a DCD 202 will be inactive, power control processor 326 powers down the circuitry involved in burst reception and transmission. Power control processor 326 continues keeping time and reactivates the unit for reception of the next frame's SYNC and P&A bursts 402 and 406. While certain circuits, such as interface and clock circuits must operate continually, the sleep mode feature can substantially reduce the DCD's power consumption.



FIG. 9 depicts a modified frame structure to accommodate DCDs 202 with a large amount of timing uncertainty according to one embodiment of the present invention. The large timing uncertainty will generally be associated with DCDs 202 that are contacting the AP for the first time in a session. In all subsequent transmissions the DCDs 202 will adjust their timing with high accuracy in response to a command from AP 204. Therefore, a superframe structure is used to accommodate these initial accesses by DCDs 202. A superframe 900 includes a predetermined number (20 in the example) of AIFs, with a special first AIF 902 in superframe 900 having special characteristics. The receiver of DCD 202 can determine the position of first frame 902 within superframe 900 by searching for a unique marker within that frame's first burst, an XSYNC burst as described below.



The special first AIF 902 in the superframe includes the unique bursts XSYNC 904 and XRA 906 that replace the SYNC burst and RA burst. XSYNC burst 904 is a modified version of the previously described SYNC burst. It still permits the DCD to obtain frequency offset correction and burst timing, yet it is constructed so that it can be uniquely identified as the XSYNC burst. XRA burst 906 is like the regular RA burst, but with additional cyclic prefix samples, additional training tones, and a small guard time interval. The XRA burst's modified structure allows the system to ascertain the time of arrival of each parallel unsynchronized access request, but prevents these access requests from overlapping the next burst in the superframe. XRA burst 906 remains compatible with the system's 256-point I(FFT) convention.



Recall that previously it was assumed that the DCD transmit timing uncertainty was insignificant; either the distance between DCDs and the AP was sufficiently small, or the DCD adjusted the timing of its transmissions per instructions from the AP. Now suppose that 500 meters separate the AP and the farthest DCD. If the DCD has not previously contacted the AP, then it has not yet received a timing adjustment command. Thus if the DCD were to submit an access request during a regular RA burst according to the timing it perceives, its transmission would arrive at the AP roughly 3.2 microseconds too late in the frame structure. In an exemplary embodiment of the XRA slot, we consider a construction that allows for roundtrip time delays, and therefore burst misalignments of up to 3.2 microseconds. In the exemplary system with the 10 MHz sample rate, this corresponds to 32 samples.



The timeslot of XRA burst 906 is sandwiched between the prior and subsequent bursts 1002 in FIG. 10. The 32 samples of timing misalignment effectively lengthen the channel to L.sub.X=L+32=52 samples. Recall that both the length of the cyclic prefix and the number of training tones should be greater than or equal to the length of the channel, i.e., v.sub.X.gtoreq.L.sub.X and N.sub.XT.gtoreq.L.sub.X. In the example, v.sub.X=N.sub.XT=64 samples is chosen. In addition, a guard time of at least 32 symbols must be included in the superframe timing to prevent late arriving XRA transmissions from overlapping the next burst.



With the increased number of required training tones for access attempts within XRA burst 906, the total number of tones may no longer be divided into 5 sets as in the regular RA burst. Instead XRA burst 906 allows three parallel XRA channels. Each of the channels includes 64 training tones and 21 data tones. However, to remain consistent with the regular RA channels, one may choose to use only 19 of the 21 data tones in each XRA channel. FIG. 11 depicts the arrangement of tones within XRA burst 906.



The advantage of this approach is that up to 3 DCDs making initial access request can transmit during the XRA burst and not interfere with one another nor with communications taking place in adjacent bursts. The slight overhead penalty of 64 samples per superframe enables up to 3 initial access attempts.



It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications, patents, and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

PatentNumber=7903537,FIELD OF THE INVENTION



This invention relates generally to resource allocation in wireless networks, and more particularly to resource allocation in Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access cellular networks using a graph-based approach.



BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



OFDMA



Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a modulation technique used at the physical layer (PHY) of a number of wireless networks, e.g., networks designed according to the well known IEEE 802.11a/g and IEEE 802.16/16e standards. Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) is a multiple access scheme based on OFDM. In OFDMA, separate sets of orthogonal tones (subchannels) and time slots are allocated to multiple transceivers (users or mobile stations) so that the transceivers can communicate concurrently. OFDMA is widely adopted in many next generation cellular systems such as 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) and IEEE 802.16m due to its effectiveness and flexibility in radio resource allocation.



OFDMA Resource Allocation



The radio spectrum is a scarce resource in wireless communications, and therefore an efficient use of it is needed. The rapid growth of wireless applications and subscriber users have called for a good radio resource management (RRM) scheme that can increase the network capacity and, from a commercial point of view, save deployment cost. Consequently, developing an effective radio resource allocation scheme for OFDMA is of significant interest for industry.



The fundamental challenge in resource allocation is the inequality between the scarce spectrum that is available, and the vast area to be covered and large number of users to be served. In other words, the same frequency spectrum must be reused in multiple geographical areas or cells. This will inevitably incur inter-cell interference (ICI), when users or mobile stations (MSs) in adjacent cells use the same spectrum. In fact, ICI has been shown to be the predominant performance-limiting factor for wireless cellular networks. As a result, a significant amount of research has been devoted to developing ICI-aware radio resource allocation for cellular networks



In order to maximize the spectral efficiency, frequency reuse factor of one is used in OFDMA cell deployment, i.e., the same spectrum is reused in each and every cell. Unfortunately, this high spectrum efficiency is also accompanied by high detrimental ICI. Therefore, a good ICI management scheme on top of OFDMA is needed to leverage the OFDMA technology.



OFDMA Resource allocation has been studied extensively for tile single-cell case. Most of existing methods focus on the optimization of power or throughput under the assumption that each MS would use different subchannel(s) in order to avoid intra-cell interference. Another key assumption in single-cell resource allocation is that the base station (BS) has the full knowledge of channel signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of link between itself and every MS. In the downlink (i.e., transmission from BS to MS), this SNR is normally estimated by the MS and fed back to the BS. In the uplink (i.e., transmission from MS to BS), BS can estimate the SNR directly based upon the signal it receives from every MS. Its counterpart in the multi-cell scenario, namely the signal-to-interference-and-noise ratio (SINR), is however more difficult to obtain because the interference can come from multiple cells and would depend on a variety of factors such as distance, location, and occupied channel status of interferers which are unknown before resource allocation. This results in mutual dependency of ICI and complicates the resource allocation problem. Thus, a practical multi-cell resource allocation scheme that does not require global and perfect knowledge of SINR is highly desirable.



Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC)



ICIC is a technique that can effectively reduce ICI in cell-edge regions. It is achieved by allocating disjoint channel resources to cell-edge MSs that belong to different cells. Because cell-edge MSs are most prone to high ICI, the overall ICI can be substantially reduced by judicious coordination of channel allocation among cell-edge MSs. More specifically, ICIC reduces the number of interferers and/or the "damage" each interferer causes. The latter can be achieved by, for instance, allocating the same resource to geographically farther apart MSs so that due to path loss the interference is mitigated.



However, ICIC solely based on avoiding resource collision for cell-edge users can offer only limited performance gain in the downlink communications, because it overlooks the interference caused by transmission from the BS to cell-center MSs. The embodiments of the invention aim to propose a holistic channel allocation scheme where all MSs, cell-center and cell-edge alike, are taken into ICI management consideration.



Spatial Division Multiple Access (SDMA)



SDMA provides multi-user channel access by using multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) techniques with precoding and multi-user scheduling. SDMA exploits spatial information of the location of MSs within the cell. With SDMA, the radiation patterns of the signals are adapted to obtain a highest gain in a particular direction. This is often called beam forming or beam steering. BSs that support SDMA transmit signals to multiple users concurrently using the same resources. Thus, SDMA can increase network capacity.



Base Station Cooperation (BSC)



Base station cooperation (BSC) allows multiple BSs to transmit signals to multiple MSs concurrently sharing the same resource (i.e., time and frequency). It utilizes the SDMA technique for BSs to send signals to MSs cooperatively and is specifically used in cell-edge MSs that are within the transmission ranges of multiple BSs. Thanks to cooperation, the interfering signal becomes part of the useful signal. Thus, BSC has two advantages: provision of spatial diversity and ICI reduction.



Diversity Set



Typically, each MS is registered at and communicates with one BS, which is called the anchor (or serving) BS. However, in some scenarios such as handover, The MS can concurrently communicate with more than one BS. A diversity set is defined in the IEEE 802.16e standard to serve this purpose. The diversity set track of the anchor BS and neighboring BSs that are within the communication range of the MS. The information in the diversity set is maintained and updated at the MS as well as the BS, and will be used in the graph-based method in this invention.



Graph-Based Framework in Prior Channel Allocation



The channel allocation problem in conventional (non-OFDMA) cellular and mesh networks has been solved using a graph coloring approach. In the conventional problem formulation, each node in the graph corresponds to a BS or an access point (AP) in the network to which channels are allocated. The edge connecting two nodes represents the potential co-channel interference, which typically corresponds to the geographical proximity of the BSs. Then, the channel allocation problem that respects the interference constraints becomes the node coloring problem, where two interfering nodes should not have the same color, i.e., use the same channel.



In conventional networks, if two adjacent base stations transmit at the same time using the same spectrum, then they cause interference to each other in the MSs. Thus, in the conventional graph, all that is required is to ensure that adjacent nodes representing BSs have different colors.



That solution is in applicable to OFDMA networks, where the frequency reuse factor is one, and all BS do use the same spectrum. In addition, conventional graphs do not consider technologies, such ICIC and BSC, as described above.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The embodiments of the invention provide a practical and low-complexity multi-cell OFDMA downlink channel allocation method using a graph-based approach. The graph-based approach differs from the prior art in two fundamental aspects.



First, while the prior art minimizes the number of subchannels in use, under an interference constraint, the invention uses a fixed and predetermined number of subchannels at disposal in OFDMA networks. Because complete avoidance of interference is not physically feasible, a proper and well administered compromise is considered.



Second, nodes in the graph of our case should denote MSs rather than BSs, because it is MSs, not BSs, that are allocated channels in OFDMA networks. Furthermore, the location and movement of MSs will change the interference dynamics and consequently the graph. In the prior art graph, the base stations represented by the nodes in the graph are stationary, thus mobility of the stations is not an issue, and the problem is relatively simple to solve.



The method includes two phases: 1) a coarse-scale interference management scheme; and 2) a fine-scale channel allocation scheme.



In the first phase, the interference management is performed using a graph-based framework. The interference information is based on the diversity sets maintained at BSs and the MSs and presented in the form of an interference graph. Then, the graph is partitioned into non-overlapping clusters according to an interference management criteria, such as ICIC and BSC. In this phase, ICIC, BSC and SDMA techniques are all incorporated in the framework, and no precise SINR information is required.



In the second phase, resource allocations is performed by allocating subchannels to clusters obtained in the first phase, either randomly or considering instantaneous channel conditions.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is a flow chart of a method for allocating channel resources in an in orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) network according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 2A is a schematic of an ICIC spectrum allocation implemented in adjacent cells and an exemplary ICIC scenario with 2 MSs and 2 BSs according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 2B is a schematic illustration of the BSC spectrum allocation implemented in adjacent cells and an exemplary BSC scenario with 2 MSs and 2 BSs according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 3 is a schematic of a multi-cell network according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 4 is an interference graph constructed for a multi-cell multi-transceivers scenario according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 5 is a table of a diversity set according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 6 is a flow chart of the method to determine the interference-related edge weight in FIG. 4 according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 7 is an interference graph with the edge weights assigned based on the method in FIG. 6;



FIG. 8 is a flow chart of a method used in a first-phase of interference management according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 9 is a flow chart of a method used in a second-phase SNR-aware channel allocation problem according to embodiments of the invention; and



FIG. 10 are graphs comparing conventional and invented allocation methods.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT



Graph-based OFDMA Resource Allocation



FIG. 1 shows a method for allocating resources to mobile stations in an orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) network according to embodiments of the invention. The OFDMA network includes multiple base stations (BSs) and multiple mobile stations (MSs).



We construct 110 an interference graph 101. In the graph, nodes 150 represent the MSs, and edges 151 connecting the nodes represent potential interference between the mobile stations represented by the nodes connected by the edges, as well as a quality of the channels used by the mobile stations.



The interference graph is constructed using diversity sets 102 maintained by the BSs and the MSs in the OFDMA network. Each BS can maintain a diversity set for the set of MSs and has knowledge of all diversity sets served by the BS. The BSs can exchange the diversity sets so that all BSs have all diversity sets, and the MSs can maintain diversity sets for the base stations with which they are associated.



The potential interference at the MSs is based on the corresponding established diversity set. A proper weight assignment 104 is used to construct the edges in the interference graph, which represent the interference between MSs (nodes). The possible weights 105 are described in greater detail below.



Interference management 120 is preformed using the interference graphs 101. Heuristic methods are adopted to partition the graph into disjoint clusters.



Channel assignment 130 is accomplished after the clustering of the graph, using the channel resource 131 information. Subchannels are assigned to clusters and nodes (MSs) in the same cluster are assigned the same subchannel. The assignment may be done either randomly or opportunistically considering instantaneous channel information in the assignment.



Spectrum Allocation



FIGS. 2A-2B show spectrum allocation for OFDMA multi-cell networks described in the embodiments of our invention. Seven cells are shown. This can be easily generalized to more cells. The frequency reuse factor is one. That is, each cell uses the entire network bandwidth. Each cell is geographically partitioned into cell-center and boundary regions, with boundary region are further portioned into three sectors.



In FIGS. 2A and 2B, A.sub.i, B.sub.i and C.sub.i refer to the three sectors in the boundary region respectively, and D.sub.i refers to the cell-center, i=1, . . . , 7. Note that the sectorization shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B serves only to illustrate the concept of resource allocation in terms of geographical regions and is not restrictive. In the Figures, channels in the sectors with the same shading share the same resources, e.g., frequency subchannels, and can therefore potentially interfere with each other.



Note that the cell center is farther from the adjacent cells and thus the transmission from BS to the cell center MSs cause less ICI to the MSs in adjacent cells. In contrast, the cell boundary is closer to the adjacent cells and thus the transmission from BS to the boundary MSs normally causes (and experience) stronger ICI to (from) MSs in the adjacent cells. In other words, resource allocation in boundary region should be more carefully administered so that ICI can be mitigated. This can be achieved by performing boundary planning in combination with interference management schemes such as ICIC or BSC.



ICIC Scenario



ICIC is achieved by allocating disjoint channel resources to boundary MSs that belong to different cells. This is shown in FIG. 2A by different shading patterns, where a non-overlapping spectrum is allocated to MS 1 and MS 2 located in adjacent B.sub.1 and B.sub.2 sectors, respectively. Therefore, the potential interference caused by downlink signal to each other, can be avoided. In general, ICIC suggests allocation of disjoint spectrum to channels in adjacent boundary regions (i.e., A.sub.1, A.sub.4 and A.sub.5; B.sub.1, B.sub.2 and B.sub.3; C.sub.1, C.sub.6 and C.sub.7) to reduce interference.



BSC Scenario



BSC is achieved by allocating overlapping spectrum to MSs in adjacent boundary regions. As shown in. FIG. 2B, overlapping spectrum is allocated to MS 1 and MS 2 located in adjacent B.sub.1 and B.sub.2 sectors, respectively. Then, BS 1 and BS 2 transmit signals jointly to both MS 1 and MS 2 in the same frequency band. Thus, the potential interference caused by downlink signal to each other is replaced by useful signals (shown by solid arrows). In general, BSC suggests allocation of overlapping spectrum to adjacent boundary regions (i.e., A.sub.1, A.sub.4 and A.sub.5; B.sub.1, B.sub.2 and B.sub.3; C.sub.1, C.sub.6 and C.sub.7) to allow cooperation, as shown in FIG. 2B. This would never be possible in conventional networks.



BSC can be integrated with intra-cell SDMA, which allows a BS to transmit to its multiple serving MSs using the same OFDMA resource. For instance, FIG. 2B shows that if BS 2 communicates with MS 2 and MS 3 using SDMA, MS 1, MS 2 and MS 3 can participate in a 3-MS, 2-BS BSC scenario.



In the following, we describe our interference graphs-based resource allocation method for OFDMA-based multi-cell networks. Note that the method allows the use of both ICIC and BSC management schemes concurrently.



First Phase: Interference Management



FIG. 3 shows an example arrangement of BSs and MSs. We want to determine the strength of interference from the geographic locations of the MSs, along with the instantaneous channel state information (CSI), which is indicative of the channel quality. We use this information to construct the corresponding interference graphs 101 as shown in greater detail in FIG. 4.



In FIG. 4, each node 1, for=1, . . . , 5, represents an MS. All pairs of nodes are connected by N parallel edges, if assuming there are N pieces of OFDMA resources, e.g., subchannels, in the network. Each of the N parallel edges has an associated "cost" or weight w which represents the potential interference between two MSs. For example, the weight between node a and node b, a<b, is denoted by w.sub.ab in FIG. 4. The higher tile value of w.sub.ab, the stronger the potential interference between MSs a and b.



We see a close relationship between the well known max k-cut in general graph theory, and the channel allocation problem in OFDMA networks that takes interference management into consideration. In graph theory, a cut is a partition of the vertices of the graph into multiple sets or clusters. The size of a cut is the total number of edges crossing the cut. In our weighted graphs, the size of the cut is the sum of weights of the edges crossing the cut.



A cut is maximal (max) if the size of the cut is not smaller than the size of any other cut. By generalizing a cut to k cuts, the max k-cut process is to find a set of k cuts that is not smaller in size than any other k cuts. This is an NP-complete problem for a graph with a large number of nodes.



Consequently, we use a heuristic method that can efficiently produce an approximate solution. Thus, given N subchannels and M MSs, a good solution for the channel allocation problem is solved by the max k-cut process.



The goal of the max k-cut process is to partition the interference graph in FIG. 4 into clusters 410, so that the inter-cluster edge weight is maximized.



Each cluster corresponds to an OFDMA resource, e.g., subchannel. Nodes (or MSs) in the same cluster are allocated the same subchannel resources. In the goal of maximizing the inter-cluster edge weight, the result tends to place strong interferers into different clusters or equivalently, separate the interferers on different subchannels. This helps to reduce ICI.



Edge Weight Construction for the Interference Graph



The embodiments of the invention provide a method to construct the edge weight, w.sub.ab, without accurate SINR measurements because the acquisition of related SINR measurement prior to the channel allocation is difficult, if feasible at all, in practice. The basic idea is to determine the weight associated with edge (a,b) based upon the diversity set information 102 maintained at base station (BS) for MSs a and b.



FIG. 5 shows the diversity set for the example shown in FIG. 3. In FIG. 5, each row 501 indicates the diversity set maintained at the BS for the corresponding MS. Each MS has an anchor BS 51 1, and possibly several adjacent BSs 512, if the MS is located near the cell boundary. The diversity set contains useful geographical information that is related to interference between MSs. The geographical information represents a topology or "structure" of the network. Hence, this structure is reflected in the interference graphs.



In addition, we can determine the potential interference between any two MSs from the diversity set as described below.



MS 2 and MS 4 are in the same cell and have the same anchor BS. Therefore, if they are allocated the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel), they cause intra-cell interference to each other unless they perform SDMA.



The anchor BS of MS 1 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 4. Similarly, the anchor BS of MS 4 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 1. This implies that MS 1 and MS 4 potentially cause interference to each other, if they are allocated with the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel). For the same reason, MS 1 and MS 4 are capable of performing BSC. Thus, we can conclude that MS 1 and MS 4 have ICI with each other unless they perform BSC.



The anchor BS of MS 4 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 3. Thus, MS 4 and MS 3 cause interference to each other if they use the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel). However, because the anchor BS of MS 3 is not in the adjacent BS set of MS 4, MS 3 and MS 4 cannot perform BSC. MS 1 and MS 3 do not interfere with each other, as the anchor BS of neither MS is in the adjacent BS set of the other MS.



The above analysis is performed for every pair of nodes followed by a weight assignment. In one embodiment, there are seven possible weight values 105 that can be selected for edges between any two nodes, w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N, w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2, w.sub.A, where the weights w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N and w.sub.A correspond to weights associated with BSC, SDMA, no-interference, and intra-cell interference, respectively, and w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2 are ICI weights at various interference levels depending on the geographic location of the two MSs.



That is, the mutual ICI between two MSs located in two different cells is the weakest if each MS is in the center (denoted by w.sub.0) of its own cell, medium if one MS is at the boundary of one cell and the other in the center of the other cell (denoted by w.sub.1), and strongest if both MSs are on the boundary of its own cell (denoted by w.sub.2).



Overall, the seven weight values can be ranked as w.sub.B.apprxeq.w.sub.S<<w.sub.N<w.sub.0<w.sub.1<w.sub.2&l- t;<w.sub.A.



Note that w.sub.B and w.sub.S are the smallest because they require that the MSs use the same subchannel, and w.sub.A is the largest because we would like to completely avoid the intra-cell interference.



The complete method to determine the edge weight is summarized by the flow chart in FIG. 6.



First, the anchor BS of MS a and MS b are checked 610. If they are the same, the weight decision can be made directly. We determine 611 if SDMA is used and assign w.sub.ab as w.sub.S 612 or w.sub.A 613 accordingly.



If they are not the same, then further procedures are needed. Specifically, anchor BS of MS a is checked 630 whether it is in MS b's adjacent BS diversity sets, and temporary weight (w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2) 631 or w.sub.N 632 is assigned accordingly. Likewise, anchor BS of MS b is checked 650 whether it is in MS a's adjacent BS diversity sets, and temporary weight (w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2) 651 or w.sub.N 652 is assigned accordingly. If both anchor BSs are in each other's adjacent BS set, then BSC is qualified and is determined 670 to be used or not. If BSC is used, assign w.sub.B 671; otherwise, assign max(w.sup.(1), w.sup.(2)) 672.



For one embodiment, the interference-related edge weights are (w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N, w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2, w.sub.A)=(-10.sup.3, -10.sup.3+50, 0, 50, 100, 200, 10.sup.5). A small change in the weight does not change the result. Note that graph edge weight different from the ones described above can also be used.



The resulting interference graph with assigned weights for FIG. 3 is illustrated in FIG. 7, where some edges contain two possible weights depending on the actual configuration of MSs. For example, MS 1 and MS 4 may perform ICIC (with weight w.sub.2) or BSC (with weight w.sub.B). MS 2 and MS 4 (or MS 3 and MS 5) can adopt SDMA (with weight w.sub.s) or not (with weight w.sub.A). For other pairs of nodes with ICI, we employ ICIC. Note that BSC and SDMA are optional functionality which may be incorporated when this is physically feasible.



Clustering



The conventional solution for the max k-cut process is computationally prohibitive for large graphs, i.e., a large number of MSs. Thus, as shown in FIG. 8, a suboptimal heuristic method is described to solve the problem.



Given N OFDMA resource, e.g., subchannels, and M MSs, our objective is to partition of the interference graph of FIG. 7 into N clusters 710, so that the inter-cluster edge weight is maximized.



First, the method checks 810 whether M>N. The clustering problem becomes trivial when M.ltoreq.N, because the amount of OFDMA resource available for allocation (N) is greater than or equal to what is needed by the MSs (M). In this case, the method ends 860 with the optimal solution.



If M>N, the method proceeds by first assigning 820 N arbitrarily selected nodes to N clusters, one in each cluster. Then, the remaining M-N nodes are iteratively assigned 830 to the cluster so that an increase in intra-cluster weights is minimized.



After the assignment is done, the intra-cluster weight of tile cluster is updated 840.



When all nodes are assigned 850 into clusters, the method ends 860.



The complexity of this heuristic method is proportional to the sum of the number of edges, nodes and clusters in the graph. For our particular case with M nodes and N clusters, this heuristic method has complexity O(M.sup.2/2+M/2+N).



Second Phase: Channel Allocation



After the first-phase allocation, the MSs are grouped into N clusters 710 for subchannel allocation. In the second phase, we allocate the subchannel to the cluster. Among (N!) possible subchannel allocation choices, the second-phase allocation finds one that optimizes the instantaneous channel quality.



Method to Solve the Second Phase



As stated above, an exhaustive search through all (N!) choices to solve the second phase problem is also computationally intractable. We describe a heuristic suboptimal method that iteratively allocates subchannels to clusters as shown in FIG. 9. We call this method SNR-aware channel allocation.



In FIG. 9, the initial subchannel resources are {1, . . . , N} 910. The N clusters are ordered from small to large in terms of the number of nodes contained in the cluster, ties are broken arbitrarily. The resources are allocated to the clusters in the ascending order of the size of the clusters 920.



For each cluster, the subchannel, for which the sum capacity is maximum for this cluster, is allocated 930 to the cluster. The remaining sources are updated 940 accordingly. If all clusters have been allocated resource 950, then terminate 960. Otherwise, the procedure continues for the next larger cluster.



This heuristic method that iteratively allocates subchannels to clusters is of complexity O(N.sup.2).



An alternative random channel allocation can also be used here to solve the second-phase problem. In this method, one allocation out of (N!) choices is randomly picked as the solution. The complexity of this random allocation method is O(l). However, the performance of the random channel allocation may not be as good as that of the heuristic method described above.



Performance Evaluation



FIG. 10 compares the conventional ICI-blind allocation, with our methods. ICIC1 and ICIC2 use the ICIC scheme in the interference management and differ in channel assignment in the second phase (random and SNR-aware, respectively). Likewise, BSC1 and BSC2 use the BSC scheme in the interference management and differ in channel assignment in the second phase (random and SNR-aware, respectively). The BSC scheme incorporates the BSC weight, w.sub.B, in the interference graph whenever this is feasible, while the ICI scheme does not. The graphs show the cumulative distribution function (CDF) versus SINR for the five test schemes. The methods according to the invention have a remarkable improvement on the SINR performance compared to the conventional ICI-blind method. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our interference management and channel assignment methods.



It is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

PatentNumber=7907508,FIELD OF THE INVENTION



This invention relates generally to allocating radio resources, and more particularly to allocating radio resources in orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) cellular networks.



BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



OFDMA



Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a modulation technique used at the physical layer (PHY) of a number of wireless networks, e.g., networks designed according to the well known IEEE 802.11a/g and IEEE 802.16/16e standards. Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) is a multiple access scheme based on OFDM. In OFDMA, separate sets of orthogonal tones (subchannels or frequencies) and time slots are allocated to multiple transceivers or mobile stations (MS) by a base station (BS) so that the transceivers can communicate concurrently. OFDMA is widely adopted in many next generation cellular networks such as networked based on 3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE), and IEEE 802.16m standards due to its effectiveness and flexibility in radio resource allocation.



OFDMA Resource Allocation



Time and frequencies in the radio spectrum are scarce resources in wireless communications, and therefore an efficient allocation is needed. The rapid growth of wireless applications and subscriber transceivers, i.e. mobile stations (MS), have require a good radio resource management (RRM) scheme that can increase the network capacity and reduce deployment costs. Consequently, developing an effective radio resource allocation scheme for OFDMA is of significant interest for wireless communication.



The fundamental challenge is to allocate the limited available spectrum in a large geographical for a large number of transceivers. Typically, the resources are allocated by base stations (BS). In other words, the same frequency spectrum can be used in multiple geographical areas or cells. This will inevitably cause inter-cell interference (ICI), when transceivers or mobile stations (MSs) in adjacent cells use the same spectrum. In fact, ICI has been shown to be the predominant performance-limiting factor for wireless cellular networks.



To maximize the spectral efficiency, a frequency reuse factor of one is used in OFDMA cell deployment, i.e., the same spectrum is reused by each BS and MS in each and every cell. Unfortunately, this high spectrum efficiency also unavoidably leads to ICI. Therefore, a good ICI management scheme is needed.



For a single cell, most of existing allocation methods optimize power or throughput under an assumption that each MS uses different subchannel(s) in order to avoid intra-cell interference. Another key assumption in single-cell resource allocation is that the BS has signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) for all channels. In a downlink (DL) channel from the BS to the MS, the SNR is normally estimated by the MS and fed back to the BS. In the uplink channel from MS to BS, the BS can estimate the SNR directly based on the signal received from the BS.



In a multi-cell scenario, the signal-to-interference-and-noise ratio (SINR) is difficult to obtain because the interference can come from multiple cells and depends on a variety of factors, such as distance, location, and occupied channel status of interferers, which are unknown before resource allocation. This results in mutual dependency of the ICI and complicates the resource allocation problem. Thus, a practical multi-cell resource allocation method that does not require global and perfect knowledge of SINR is desirable.



Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC)



ICIC is a technique that can effectively reduce ICI in regions of cells relatively far from the BS. ICIC is achieved by allocating disjoint channel resources to the MSs near the boundary of the cell that are associated with different cells. Because boundary MSs are most prone to high ICI, the overall ICI can be substantially reduced by coordination of channel allocation among boundary MSs. More specifically, the ICIC reduces ICI interference by allocating the same resource to MSs that geographically far apart MSs so that path loss due to the interference is reduced.



However, ICIC solely based on avoiding resource collision for boundary MSs only offers a limited performance gain for DL communications, because it does not consider interference caused by transmission from the BS to cell-center MSs.



Spatial Division Multiple Access (SDMA)



Space division multiple access (SDMA) provides multi-transceiver channel access by using multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) techniques with precoding and multi-transceiver scheduling. SDMA exploits spatial information of the location of the MSs within the cell. With SDMA, the radiation patterns of the signals are adapted to obtain a highest gain in a particular direction. This is often called beam forming or beam steering. BSs that support SDMA transmit directed signals to multiple transceivers concurrently using the same resources. Thus, SDMA can increase network capacity.



Base Station Cooperation (BSC)



Base station cooperation (BSC) allows multiple BSs to transmit signals to multiple MSs concurrently while sharing the same resource, i.e., time and frequency. BSC utilizes the SDMA technique for the BSs to send signals to the MSs cooperatively, and is specifically used for boundary MSs that are within the transmission ranges of multiple BSs. In this case, the interfering signal becomes part of a useful signal. Thus, BSC has two advantages, spatial diversity and ICI reduction.



Diversity Set



Typically, each MS is `registered` at and communicates with one BS, which is called the anchor or serving BS. However, in some scenarios such as handover, concurrent communication with multiple BSs can take place. A diversity set is defined in the IEEE 802.16e standard to serve this purpose. The diversity set keeps track of the anchor BS and adjacent BSs that are within the communication range of a MS. The information of the diversity set is also maintained and updated at the MS.



Graph-Based Framework



The channel assignment problem in conventional (non-OFDMA) cellular and mesh networks has been solved using a graph coloring approach. In the conventional problem formulation, each node in the graph corresponds to a BS or an access point (AP) in the network to which channels are allocated. The edge connecting two nodes represents the potential co-channel interference, which typically corresponds to the geographical proximity of the BSs. Then, the channel assignment problem that respects the interference constraints becomes the graph coloring problem, where nodes representing two interfering base stations should not have the same color, i.e., use the same channel.



In conventional networks, if two adjacent base stations transmit at the same time using the same spectrum, then they cause interference to each other in the MSs. Thus, in the conventional graph, all that is required is to ensure that adjacent nodes representing base stations have different colors. That solution is however inapplicable to OFDMA networks, where the frequency reuse factor is one, and all BSs do use the same spectrum. In addition, conventional graphs do not consider technologies such as ICIC and BSC, as described above.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The embodiments of the invention provide a method for allocating channels to mobile stations (MS) in an orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) cellular networks using a multigraph-based approach. As defined herein, a multigraph admits multiple edges between nodes



The method maps the resource allocation problem to a multigraph coloring problem. This graph-based method differs fundamentally from the prior art in three aspects.



First, the prior art aims to minimize the number of subchannels in use under the interference constraint. The invention uses a fixed and predetermined number of subchannels. Because complete avoidance of interference is not physically possible, a proper and well administered compromise is described.



Second, nodes in the invented graph denote mobile stations, because channels are allocated to MSs in OFDMA networks. In the prior art, the nodes represent base stations. Furthermore, the location and movement of MSs changes the interference dynamics and consequently the graph.



Third, there can be multiple edges between nodes in the invented multigraph. The prior art graph of bases stations only has single edges between any two nodes.



A multigraph is constructed where nodes represent MSs and edges in the graph represent potential interference between the nodes connected by the edges. Multiple edges can be constructed for any pair of nodes considering both interference information and instantaneous channel state information (CSI). The interference information is obtained from the diversity set maintained at the BS for MSs. ICIC, BSC and SDMA techniques are all incorporated and no precise SINR information is required.



The multigraph is partitioned into non-overlapping clusters, to which channels are allocated. The partitioning accomplishes the interference management and channel assignment task concurrently.



An optimal solution to the partitioning problem is impractical. Therefore, suboptimal, heuristic methods are described.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is a flow chart of a method for allocating channel resources in an in orthogonal frequency-division multiple access (OFDMA) network according to embodiments of the invention;



FIG. 2A is a schematic of an ICIC spectrum allocation implemented in adjacent cells and an exemplary ICIC scenario with 2 MSs and 2 BSs;



FIG. 2B is a schematic illustration of the BSC spectrum allocation implemented in adjacent cells and an exemplary BSC scenario with 2 MSs and 2 BSs;



FIG. 3 is a schematic of a multi-cell network;



FIG. 4 is an interference multigraph constructed for a multi-cell multi-transceiver scenario according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 5 is a table of a diversity set according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 6 is a flow chart of the method to determine the interference-related edge weight in FIG. 4 according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 7 is an interference graph with interference-related edge weights assigned according to the method in FIG. 6 according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 8 is an interference multigraph with assigned interference-related and signal-related edge weights according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 9 is a flow chart of the method to solve the channel assignment according to an embodiment of the invention;



FIG. 10 are graphs comparing conventional and invented allocation methods.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT



Graph-Based OFDMA Resource Allocation



FIG. 1 shows a multigraph-based orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) resource allocation method according to embodiments of the invention. The OFDMA network includes multiple base stations (BSs) and multiple mobile stations (MSs).



We construct 110 an interference multigraph 101. In the graph, nodes 150 represent the MSs, and edges 151 connecting the nodes represent potential interference between the mobile stations represented by the nodes connected by the edges, as well as a quality of the channels used by the mobile stations.



The graph is constructed using diversity sets 102 maintained by the BSs and the MSs in the OFDMA network. Each BS can maintain a diversity set for the set of MSs and has knowledge of all diversity sets served by the BS. The BSs can exchange the diversity sets so that all BSs have all diversity sets, and the MSs can maintain diversity sets for the base stations with which they are associated.



The potential interference at the MSs is based on the corresponding established diversity set. Channel quality information and interference information 103 are used with a weight assignment 104 to construct the edges in the interference graph, which represent the channel-dependent interference between MSs (nodes). The possible weights 105 are described in greater detail below.



Interference management and channel assignment 120 is performed using the multigraph 101 and channel resources 121. Heuristic methods are adopted to partition the graph into disjoint clusters, as well as to assign subchannels to clusters.



Spectrum Allocation



FIGS. 2A-2B show spectrum allocation for OFDMA multi-cell networks described in the embodiments of our invention. Seven cells are shown. This can be easily generalized to more cells. The frequency reuse factor is one. That is, each cell uses the entire network bandwidth. Each cell is geographically partitioned into cell-center and boundary regions, with boundary region are further portioned into three sectors.



In FIGS. 2A and 2B, A.sub.i, B.sub.i and C.sub.i refer to the three sectors in the boundary region respectively, and D.sub.i refers to the cell-center, i=1, . . . , 7. Note that the sectorization shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B serves only to illustrate the concept of resource allocation in terms of geographical regions and is not restrictive. In the Figures, channels in the sectors with the same shading share the same resources, e.g., frequency subchannels, and can therefore potentially interfere with each other.



Note that the cell center is farther from the adjacent cells and thus the transmission from BS to the cell center MSs cause less ICI to the MSs in adjacent cells. In contrast, the cell boundary is closer to the adjacent cells and thus the transmission from BS to the boundary MSs normally causes (and experience) stronger ICI to (from) MSs in the adjacent cells. In other words, resource allocation in boundary region should be more carefully administered so that ICI can be mitigated. This can be achieved by performing boundary planning in combination with interference management schemes such as ICIC or BSC.



ICIC Scenario



ICIC is achieved by allocating disjoint channel resources to boundary MSs that belong to different cells. This is shown in FIG. 2A by different shading patterns, where a non-overlapping spectrum is allocated to MS 1 and MS 2 located in adjacent B.sub.1 and B.sub.2 sectors, respectively. Therefore, the potential interference caused by downlink signal to each other, can be avoided. In general, ICIC suggests allocation of disjoint spectrum to channels in adjacent boundary regions (i.e., A.sub.1, A.sub.4 and A.sub.5; B.sub.1, B.sub.2 and B.sub.3; C.sub.1, C.sub.6 and C.sub.7) to reduce interference.



BSC Scenario



BSC is achieved by allocating overlapping spectrum to MSs in adjacent boundary regions. As shown in FIG. 2B, overlapping spectrum is allocated to MS 1 and MS 2 located in adjacent B.sub.1 and B.sub.2 sectors, respectively. Then, BS 1 and BS 2 transmit signals jointly to both MS 1 and MS 2 in the same frequency band. Thus, the potential interference caused by downlink signal to each other is replaced by useful signals (shown by solid arrows). In general, BSC suggests allocation of overlapping spectrum to adjacent boundary regions (i.e., A.sub.1, A.sub.4 and A.sub.5; B.sub.1, B.sub.2 and B.sub.3; C.sub.1, C.sub.6 and C.sub.7) to allow cooperation, as shown in FIG. 2B. This would never be possible in conventional networks.



BSC can be integrated with intra-cell SDMA, which allows a BS to transmit to its multiple serving MSs using the same OFDMA resource. For instance, FIG. 2B shows that if BS2 communicates with MS 2 and MS 3 using SDMA, MS 1, MS 2 and MS 3 can participate in a 3-MS, 2-BS BSC scenario.



In the following, we describe our multigraph-based resource allocation method for OFDMA-based multi-cell networks. Note that the method allows the use of both ICIC and BSC management schemes concurrently.



Interference Multigraph



FIG. 3 shows an example arrangement of BSs and MSs. We want to determine a strength of interference from the geographic locations of the MSs, along with the instantaneous channel state information (CSI), which is indicative of the channel quality. We use this information to construct the corresponding interference multigraph 101 as shown in greater detail in FIG. 4.



In FIG. 4, each node I, for =1, . . . , 5, represents an MS. All pairs of nodes are connected by N parallel edges, if assuming there are N pieces of OFDMA resources, e.g., subchannels, in the network. Each of the N parallel edges has an associated "cost" or weight w which represents the potential interference between two MSs in a given subchannel and the channel quality for the channel. For example, the weight between node a and node b, a<b, in subchannel n is denoted by w.sub.ab,n in FIG. 4.



The weight w.sub.ab,n is affected by two factors, interference w.sub.ab and instantaneous channel quality that can be measured as a signal strength f.sub.ab,n w.sub.ab,n=w.sub.ab*f.sub.ab,n. (1)



The weight w.sub.ab represents the potential interference between MSs a and b, if both MSs are allocated the same OFDMA resource. The signal strength f.sub.ab,n represents the instantaneous CSI f MSs a and b in subchannel n, including the effect of frequency-selective fading. The higher the value of the weight w.sub.ab, the higher the potential interference between MSs a and b, if they use the same OFDMA resource. The higher the value of the signal strength f.sub.ab,n, the worse the instantaneous channel quality in subchannel n for MS a and b. Therefore, the channel quality contribution to the weight is inversely proportional.



We see a close relationship between the well known max k-cut and its dual, min k-partition problem in general graph theory, and the channel assignment problem in OFDMA networks that takes interference management into consideration. In graph theory, a cut is a partition of the vertices of the graph into multiple sets or clusters. The size of a cut is the total number of edges crossing the cut. In our weighted graphs, the size of the cut is the sum of weights of the edges crossing the cut.



A cut is maximal (max) if the size of the cut is not smaller than the size of any other cut. By generalizing a cut to k cuts, the max k-cut problem is to find a set of k cuts that is not smaller in size than any other k cuts. Its dual, min k-partition problem, on the contrary, is to find a set of k cuts that achieves clustering that has the smallest sum of intra-cluster edge weights. Both are NP-complete problems for a graph with a large number of nodes. Consequently, we use a heuristic method that can efficiently produce an approximate solution. Thus, given N subchannels and M MSs, a good solution for the channel assignment problem is solved by the min k-partition problem.



The goal of the min k-partition problem is to partition the interference multigraph in FIG. 4 into clusters 410, so that a sum of the intra-cluster edge weight is minimized. Each cluster 410 is further allocated resource, e.g., subchannels. Nodes, i.e., MSs, in the same cluster are allocated the same subchannel. To minimizing the intra-cluster edge weights, the result tends to place strong interferers (associated with high weight) into different clusters as well as assign better subchannel (associated with low weight) to a cluster. This achieves our optimal channel assignment with effective interference management.



In the following, we describe the method for determining the channel-dependent weight in FIG. 4, comprising two parts: 1) interference-related part of the weight; and 2) the combined interference-and-signal-related weight.



Interference-Related Weight Construction for the Interference Multigraph



The embodiments of the invention provide a method to construct the interference-related part of the weight, w.sub.ab, without accurate SINR measurements because the acquisition of related SINR measurement prior to the channel assignment is difficult, if feasible at all, in practice. The basic idea is to determine the weight associated with edge (a,b) based upon the diversity set information 102 maintained at base station (BS) for MSs a and b.



FIG. 5 shows the diversity set for the example shown in FIG. 3. In FIG. 5, each row 501 indicates the diversity set maintained at the BS for the corresponding MS. Each MS has an anchor BS 511, and possibly several adjacent BSs 512, if the MS is located near the cell boundary. The diversity set contains useful geographical information that is related to interference between MSs. The geographical information represents a topology or "structure" of the network. Hence, this structure is reflected in the multi graph.



In addition, we can determine the potential interference between any two MSs from the diversity set as described below. Hence, the potential interference is also represented in the multigraph by the edges, along with the channel quality.



MS 2 and MS 4 are in the same cell and have the same anchor BS. Therefore, if they are allocated the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel), they cause intra-cell interference to each other unless they perform SDMA.



The anchor BS of MS 1 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 4. Similarly, the anchor BS of MS 4 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 1. This implies that MS 1 and MS 4 potentially cause interference to each other, if they are allocated with the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel). For the same reason, MS 1 and MS 4 are capable of performing BSC. Thus, we can conclude that MS 1 and MS 4 have ICI with each other unless they perform BSC.



The anchor BS of MS 4 is in the adjacent BS set of MS 3. Thus, MS 4 and MS 3 cause interference to each other if they use the same OFDMA resource (e.g., subchannel). However, because the anchor BS of MS 3 is not in the adjacent BS set of MS 4, MS 3 and MS 4 cannot perform BSC. MS 1 and MS 3 do not interfere with each other, as the anchor BS of neither MS is in the adjacent BS set of the other MS.



The above analysis is performed for every pair of nodes followed by a weight assignment. In one embodiment, there are seven possible weight values 105 that can be selected for edges between any two nodes, w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N, w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2, w.sub.A, where the weights w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N and w.sub.A correspond to weights associated with BSC, SDMA, no-interference, and intra-cell interference, respectively, and w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2 are ICI weights at various interference levels depending on the geographic location of the two MSs.



That is, the mutual ICI between two MSs located in two different cells is the weakest if each MS is in the center (denoted by w.sub.0) of its own cell, medium if one MS is at the boundary of one cell and the other in the center of the other cell (denoted by w.sub.1), and strongest if both MSs are on the boundary of its own cell (denoted by w.sub.2).



Overall, the seven weight values can be ranked as w.sub.B.apprxeq.w.sub.S<<w.sub.N<w.sub.0<w.sub.1<w.sub.2&l- t;<w.sub.A.



Note that w.sub.B and w.sub.S are the smallest because they require that the MSs use the same subchannel, and w.sub.A is the largest because we would like to completely avoid the intra-cell interference.



The complete method to determine the interference-aware edge weight is summarized by the flow chart in FIG. 6.



First, the anchor BS of MS a and MS b are checked 610. If they are the same, the weight decision can be made directly. We determine 611 if SDMA is used and assign w.sub.ab as w.sub.S 612 or w.sub.A 613 accordingly.



If they are not the same, then further procedures are needed. Specifically, anchor BS of MS a is checked 630 whether it is in MS b's adjacent BS diversity sets, and temporary weight (w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2) 631 or w.sub.N 632 is assigned accordingly. Likewise, anchor BS of MS b is checked 650 whether it is in MS a's adjacent BS diversity sets, and temporary weight (w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2) 651 or w.sub.N 652 is assigned accordingly. If both anchor BSs are in each other's adjacent BS set, then BSC is qualified and is determined 670 to be used or not. If BSC is used, assign w.sub.B 671; otherwise, assign max(w.sup.(1), w.sup.(2)) 672.



The resulting interference-related weight for FIG. 3 is illustrated in FIG. 7 for nodes 1-5, where some edges 151 contain multiple possible weights depending on the actual configuration of MSs. For example, MS 1 and MS 4 can perform ICIC (with weight w.sub.3) or BSC (with weight w.sub.B). MS 2 and MS 4 (or MS 3 and MS 5) can adopt SDMA (with weight w.sub.S) or not (with weight w.sub.A). For other pairs of nodes with ICI, we use ICIC. Note that BSC and SDMA are optional functionality, which can be incorporated when this is feasible.



For one embodiment, the interference-related edge weights are (w.sub.B, w.sub.S, w.sub.N, w.sub.0, w.sub.1, w.sub.2, w.sub.A)=(-10.sup.3, -10.sup.3+50, 0, 50, 100, 200, 10.sup.5).



A small change in the weight does not change the result. Note that graph edge weight different from the ones described above can also be used.



Combined Interference-Related and Signal-Related Weight for the Interference Multigraph



The embodiments of the invention provide a method to construct the combined interference-related and signal-related weight, w.sub.ab,n. The objective is to properly incorporate the signal-related weight in the interference-related weight previously established. The signal-related part, f.sub.ab,n, at minimum follows the rule that the worse the instantaneous CSI in subchannel n for MSs a and b, the higher the value of signal strength f.sub.ab,n.



We define w.sub.ab,n,



.times..times..di-elect cons..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00001## .times..times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00001.2## .times..times..times. ##EQU00001.3## where h.sub.an and h.sub.bn are the instantaneous channel gain in subchannel n for MSs a and b, respectively, and are of non-negative values. Note that the signal strength f.sub.ab,n is adjusted according to the sign of the value of w.sub.ab, so that when either h.sub.an or h.sub.bn is small, meaning the instantaneous quality of the channel is bad, the weight value of w.sub.ab,n is relatively large. Hence, the weight is inversely proportional to the channel quality.



FIG. 8 shows the resulting multigraph with the combined interference-related and signal-related weight.



Method for Solving the Multigraph Coloring Problem



The optimal solution for the min k-partition problem is computationally prohibitive for large graphs, i.e., a large number of MSs. Thus, a suboptimal heuristic method is used to solve it.



FIG. 9 shows the heuristic method. Our objective here is that, given N subchannels and M MSs, find a partition of the interference multigraph into N clusters, and associate a subchannel to each cluster, so that the intra-cluster edge weight is minimized.



The method begins with checking 910 whether M>N. If M.ltoreq.N, the clustering problem becomes trivial and the remaining task is to assign M nodes to M clusters 911 followed by channel assignment. If M>N, the method first assigns N arbitrary nodes to N clusters, one in each cluster 912.



Then, clusters (either M or N clusters for case of M.ltoreq.N or M>N) are examined 913 in an arbitrary order, one at a time. For each particular cluster, the subchannel for which the capacity of using this subchannel is maximum for this cluster is assigned to this cluster 914.



After the assignment, the subchannel pool is updated 915, with the subchannels that have already been allocated removed from the available resource pool. The same procedure is then applied on the next cluster until all clusters have been assigned a subchannel 916.



It is checked again whether M>N 920. If M.ltoreq.N, by now the entire process of interference management plus channel assignment is complete 924.



If M>N, the rest of M-N nodes are iteratively assigned at each step to the cluster for which the increased intra-cluster weight is minimized 921. The intra-cluster weight is channel-dependent as each cluster is now associated with a subchannel. After the new assignment is done, the intra-cluster weight of the cluster is updated 922. The algorithm continues on the next node until all nodes are assigned into a cluster 923, when the method ends 924.



Performance Evaluation



FIG. 10 compares the conventional ICI-blind allocation, with our proposed methods, which differ in the ICI management mechanism (ICIC or ICIC+BSC). That is, the BSC scheme incorporates the BSC weight, w.sub.B, in the interference multigraph whenever this is feasible, while the ICI scheme does not. The graphs show the cumulative distribution function (CDF) versus SINR for the three test schemes. The methods according to the invention have a remarkable improvement on the SINR performance compared to the conventional ICI-blind method. This demonstrates the effectiveness of proposed interference management and channel assignment methods.



It is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore, it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

PatentNumber=7916624,TECHNICAL FIELD



This invention relates to an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) communication system, and more particularly to an OFDM communication system for a multiple access communication network.



BACKGROUND



Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is a relatively well known multiplexing technique for communication systems. OFDM communication systems can be used to provide multiple access communication, where different users are allocated different orthogonal tones within a frequency bandwidth to transmit data at the same time. In an OFDM communication system, the entire bandwidth allocated to the system is divided into orthogonal tones. In particular, for a given symbol duration T available for user data transmission, and a given bandwidth W, the number of available orthogonal tones F is given by WT. The spacing between the orthogonal tones .DELTA. is chosen to be 1/T, thereby making the tones orthogonal. In addition to the symbol duration T which is available for user data transmission, an additional period of time T.sub.c can be used for transmission of a cyclic prefix. The cyclic prefix is prepended to each symbol duration T and is used to compensate for the dispersion introduced by the channel response and by the pulse shaping filter used at the transmitter. Thus, although a total symbol duration of T+T.sub.c is employed for transmitting an OFDM symbol, only the symbol duration T is available for user data transmission and is therefore called an OFDM symbol duration.



In prior OFDM techniques, an OFDM signal is first constructed in the frequency domain by mapping symbols of a constellation to prescribed frequency tones. The signal constructed in the frequency domain is then transformed to the time domain by an inverse discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) or inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) to obtain the digital signal samples to be transmitted. In general, symbols of the constellation have a relatively low peak-to-average ratio property. For example, symbols of a QPSK constellation all have the same amplitude. However, after being transformed by the IDFT or IFFT, the resultant time domain signal samples are the weighted sum of all the symbols, and therefore generally do not preserve the desirable low peak-to-average ratio property. In particular, the resulting time domain signal typically has a high peak-to-average ratio.



Existing techniques for implementing OFDM communication systems can be highly inefficient due to the relatively high peak-to-average ratio when compared with other signaling schemes, such as single carrier modulation schemes. As a result, existing OFDM techniques are not well suited for a wireless multiple access communication network with highly mobile users because the high peak-to-average ratio of the transmitted signal requires a large amount of power at the base station and at the wireless device. The large power requirements result in short battery life and more expensive power amplifiers for handheld wireless communication devices or terminals. Accordingly, it is desirable to provide an OFDM technique which reduces the peak-to-average ratio of the signal to be transmitted, while simultaneously taking advantage of the larger communication bandwidth offered by an OFDM communication system.



SUMMARY



In one aspect of the communication system, power consumption associated with generating and transmitting OFDM signals is reduced as compared to the prior OFDM systems discussed above. The OFDM signaling method includes defining a constellation having a plurality of symbols, defining the symbol duration for the OFDM communication signal, and defining a plurality of time instants in the symbol duration. In a given symbol duration, a plurality of tones in the symbol duration are allocated to a particular transmitter and the signal to be transmitted is represented by a vector of data symbols from the symbol constellation. The symbols are first directly mapped to the prescribed time instants in the symbol duration. A continuous signal is then constructed by applying continuous interpolation functions to the mapped symbols such that the values of the continuous signal at the prescribed time instants are respectively equal to the mapped symbols and the frequency response of the continuous signal only contains sinusoids at the allocated tones. Finally the digital signal, which is to be transmitted, consists of samples of the continuous signal. Alternatively, the digital signal can be generated directly by applying discrete interpolation functions to the mapped symbols. As symbols from the constellation generally have good peak-to-average ratio property, proper choices of allocated frequency tones, prescribed time instants and interpolation functions can result in a minimized peak-to-average ratio of the continuous function and the digital signal samples.



In one aspect, a digital processing system is defined that is utilized in a transmitter that generates a transmission signal having a first circuit that receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols, calculates a frequency response of the discrete signal, and outputs a first vector of length M, a second circuit that receives the vector of length M and generates a second vector of length N, wherein the second vector of length N includes elements of the first vector at positions corresponding to tones allocated to the transmitter, and a third circuit that receives the second vector and generates a digital time domain vector therefrom for transmission by the transmitter.



In one aspect, an apparatus that generates a transmission signal is defined which comprises means for receiving a discrete signal of complex data symbols, calculates a frequency response of the discrete signal, and outputs a first vector of length M, means for receiving the vector of length M and generates a second vector of length N, wherein the second vector of length N includes elements of the first vector at positions corresponding to tones allocated to a transmitter, and means for generating a digital time domain vector of the second vector for transmission by the transmitter.



The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.



DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an OFDM system.



FIG. 2A is a block diagram of an interpolation system used by the OFDM system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 2B is a block diagram of another interpolation system used by the OFDM system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 3A is a graph showing symbols mapped to prescribed time instants in the time domain according to the OFDM technique implemented by the system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 3B is a graph showing the frequency domain response of the graph of FIG. 3B.



FIG. 4A shows an implementation technique for producing a digital signal sample vector using time domain symbol mapping in the case where the allocated tones are contiguous.



FIG. 4B is a block diagram showing a communication system for producing a digital signal sample vector in the case where the allocated frequency tones are contiguous.



FIG. 4C is a graph showing the mapping of the symbols to the prescribed time instants, the expansion of the mapped symbols, and the use of a sinc function to interpolate the expanded symbols.



FIG. 4D is a graph showing the large peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the frequency domain in the prior OFDM systems.



FIG. 4E is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 4A-4C.



FIG. 5A shows another implementation technique for producing the digital signal sample vector using time domain symbol mapping in the case where the allocated tones are equally spaced in frequency.



FIG. 5B is a block diagram showing a communication system for producing a digital signal sample vector in the case where the allocated frequency tones are equally spaced.



FIG. 5C is a graph showing the mapping of the symbols to the prescribed time instants, the expansion of the mapped symbols, and the use of a sinc function to interpolate the symbols.



FIG. 5D is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 5A-5C.



FIG. 6 is a graph showing .pi./4 symbol rotation.



FIG. 7 shows the use of a cyclic shift of the real and imaginary signal components.



FIG. 8A is a graph showing application of a windowing function in the frequency domain to further reduce the peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 8B is a block diagram showing a technique using more tones than the number of symbols to be transmitted for producing a digital signal sample vector.



FIG. 8C is a graph showing the use of an interpolation function corresponding to the window function of FIG. 8B to the symbols mapped to the prescribed time instants.



FIG. 8D is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 8A-8C.



Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



Referring to FIG. 1, an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) communication system 10 is shown. OFDM communication system 10 receives a first constellation of symbols {B.sub.i} 12 and provides the symbols to a symbol-to-symbol mapping circuit 14, that produces a second constellation of complex symbols {C.sub.i} 16. The complex symbols 16 represent data or a stream of data to be transmitted by the OFDM communication system, and may be chosen from a variety of symbol constellations including, but not limited to phase shift keying (PSK) and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) symbol constellations. The symbol-to-symbol mapping performed by the mapping circuit 14 is an optional step performed by the OFDM communication system 10.



Next, a time instant mapping circuit 18 maps each complex symbol 16 to a prescribed time instant within a given OFDM symbol duration. The mapping operation is performed in the time domain such that the mapping circuit 18 generates a discrete signal of mapped symbols within the time domain symbol duration. The output of the mapping circuit 18 is provided to an interpolation circuit 20, that produces a series of digital signal samples {S.sub.i} 22. The digital signal samples 22 are formed by sampling a continuous signal, which is constructed by applying one or more predetermined continuous interpolation functions to the mapped complex symbols 19. Alternatively, the digital signal samples 22 are formed by directly applying one or more predetermined discrete interpolation functions to the mapped complex symbols 19. When using the technique of applying discrete interpolation functions, no intermediate continuous signal is generated and the step of sampling the continuous signal is not necessary. The operation of the interpolation circuit 20 is described in greater detail below. A cyclic prefix circuit 24 receives the series of digital signal samples 22 from the interpolation circuit 20 and prepends a cyclic prefix to the digital signal samples 22. The cyclic prefix circuit 24 operates to copy and prepend the last portion of the digital signal sample vector S 22 to the beginning of the OFDM symbol duration. The resulting digital signal samples 22 with the prepended cyclic prefix are converted to an analog signal by a digital to analog converter 28. The resulting analog signal is further processed by a pulse shaping filter 30, the output of which is modulated to a carrier frequency, and amplified by a power amplifier unit 32 for transmission through an antenna 34.



In one implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, the symbol-to-symbol mapping circuit 14, the time instant mapping circuit 18, the interpolation circuit 20, and the cyclic prefix circuit 24 are implemented in a digital signal processor (DSP) 26, and may include a combination of hardware modules and/or software modules. These circuits 14, 18, 20, and 24 can also be implemented as separate discrete circuits within the OFDM communication system 10.



The details of the interpolation circuit 20 are shown in FIG. 2A. The interpolation circuit 20 includes an interpolation function module 21 that applies one or more continuous interpolation functions to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 19 to generate a continuous signal in which signal variation between adjacent symbols is minimized. Thus, the continuous signal has a low peak-to-average ratio. The interpolation functions may be precomputed and stored in an interpolation function memory 23 connected to the interpolation function module 21. A frequency tone and time instant allocation circuit 27 is connected to the interpolation function memory 23 and defines an allocated tone set selected from frequency tones distributed over a predetermined bandwidth associated with the OFDM communication system 10. The allocated tone set is then provided to the interpolation function memory 23. The frequency tone and time instant allocation circuit 27 also defines the prescribed time instants distributed over the time domain symbol duration, which can also be stored in the interpolation function memory 23 for use by the interpolation function module 21 as well as other modules within the DSP 26. The interpolation circuit 20 also includes a sampling circuit 25 for receiving and sampling the continuous signal at discrete time instants distributed over the time domain symbol duration to generate the vector of digital signal samples 22. Alternatively, in FIG. 2B the interpolation function module 21 applies one or more discrete interpolation functions to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 19 to directly generate the digital signal sample vector 22, in which case the sampling circuit 25 (of FIG. 2A) is not needed. Through applying the discrete interpolation functions, the interpolation function module 21 effectively combines the processing steps of applying the continuous interpolation functions and sampling the intermediate continuous signal.



FIG. 3A graphically depicts the signal processing steps performed by the various circuits of the DSP 26. More specifically, FIG. 3A shows the construction of the signal to be transmitted in a given OFDM time domain symbol duration 40. The time domain symbol duration 40 is a time interval from 0 to T. For purposes of the following description, the OFDM symbol duration T does not include the cyclic prefix. The signal to be transmitted in the symbol duration 40 is represented by complex symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16 that are mapped to the prescribed time instants, where M denotes the number of symbols to be transmitted in the symbol duration 40.



In one implementation, the OFDM communication system 10 is a multiple access communication system where the entire bandwidth available to all transmitters within the system is divided into F orthogonal frequency tones, f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F. In the given symbol duration 40, a particular transmitter operating within a multiple access communication system is allocated M frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), which is a subset of, f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F (the total number of frequency tones) in order to transmit the signal. As part of this implementation, the number of tones allocated to a particular transmitter is equal to the number of symbols to be transmitted by that transmitter. Later in FIG. 8A, the number of allocated tones can be greater than the number of symbols to be transmitted. The remaining frequency tones can be used by other transmitters within the communication system. This technique allows OFDM communication system 10 to operate as a multiple access communication system.



The complex data symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are first mapped to t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M, respectively, where t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M are M prescribed time instants within the time domain symbol duration 40. The mapping operation generates a discrete signal of mapped symbols. It should be noted that the number of prescribed time instants is equal to the number of symbols M to be transmitted. As described above, the symbol mapping occurs in the time domain. Continuous interpolation functions 42 are then applied to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 16 to generate a continuous function CF(t) for t in the time interval from 0 to T.



The interpolation functions 42 are constructed such that the values of the continuous function CF(t) at time instants t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M are respectively equal to C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M and the frequency response of the continuous function CF(t) contains only sinusoids at the allocated tones. Therefore, CF(t) is constructed as



.function..times..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..fu- nction..times. ##EQU00001## where J= {square root over (-1)} and coefficients A.sub.k are given by



e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..t- imes..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..time- s..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..times..- pi..times..times..function..times..function. ##EQU00002## Thus, each coefficient A.sub.k is generated by multiplying a matrix of predetermined sinusoids with the single column of data symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16.



FIG. 3B shows the frequency response of the continuous function CF(t). More specifically, FIG. 3B shows that the frequency response of the continuous function is non-zero only at the allocated frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), and is zero at all other frequency tones.



The output of the DSP 26 is a vector of digital signal samples S 22, which are the samples of the continuous function CF(t) at discrete time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N, . . . , T(N-1)/N, that is, S.sub.1=CF(0), S.sub.2=CF(T/N), S.sub.3=CF(2T/N), . . . , S.sub.N=CF(T(N-1)/N), where N is the number of discrete time instants in the vector of digital signal samples 22. In a general form, t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M may not necessarily be equal to any of the time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N T(N-1)/N. Therefore, while the digital signal samples S 22 may occur at the time instants, t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M, the OFDM communication system 10 does not require that the time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N . . . , T(N-1)/N be equal to t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



In another implementation of OFDM communication system 10, the digital signal samples S 22 may be generated by the DSP 26 by directly multiplying a matrix of precomputed sinusoidal waveforms Z, operating as discrete interpolation functions, with the discrete signal of mapped symbols C in order to satisfy the transformation function S=ZC according to the following:



.times..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..ti- mes.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.time- s..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times.e.times..- times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times..function..t- imes.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.tim- es..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times.- .times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times.e.times..times..ti- mes..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times..times.e.times..times- ..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..t- imes..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi..- times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..tim- es..function..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003## where C represents the symbol vector, and the matrix Z represents the product of the two matrices in the second line of the above equation. Each column (i) of matrix Z represents the interpolation function 42 of a corresponding symbol C.sub.i to generate the digital signal samples S 22. As such, the matrix Z can be pre-computed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23 of the interpolation circuit 20 (FIG. 2B). The interpolation circuit 20 then applies the discrete interpolation functions 42 defined by the matrix Z to the discrete signal of mapped complex symbols C 16 in order to satisfy the criteria of S=ZC and to generate the vector of digital signal samples 22.



The purpose of constructing the signal in the time domain is to directly map the symbols 16, which have a desirable low peak-to-average ratio property, to the prescribed time instants within the symbol duration 40. Appropriate interpolation functions 42 are selected to obtain the continuous function CF(t) and the digital signal samples 22 such that the desirable low peak-to-average ratio property of the symbols 16 is substantially preserved for the continuous function and for the digital signal samples 22. The peak-to-average ratio property of the resulting (interpolated) continuous function CF(t) and the digital signal samples 22 is dependent upon the interpolation functions 42, the choice of allocated frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) from the set of tones, and the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



Referring to FIG. 4A, one implementation of the OFDM communication system 10 allocates tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) to the transmitter associated with the communication system that are a subset of contiguous tones in the tone set f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F. Therefore, f.sub.i(k)=f.sub.0+(k-1).DELTA., for k=1, . . . , M, where M is the number of symbols. If the OFDM communication system 10 is a multiple access system, each transmitter associated with the communication system is allocated a non-overlapping subset of frequency tones. For purposes of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



Complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are mapped in the time domain to the following time instants t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M, for k=1, . . . , M. As part of this implementation, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over the entire OFDM symbol duration 40 as shown in the first time domain graph of FIG. 4A. Given the choice of the allocated frequency tones and prescribed time instants, the matrix Z, which is used to generate the digital signal samples S as discussed in FIGS. 3A-3B, can be simplified to



.function.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.- e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..t- imes..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times.e.times..time- s..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times..function.e.times..time- s..times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..- times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi.- .times..times..function..times.e.times..times..times..times..pi..times..ti- mes..function..times. ##EQU00004##



The second time domain graph of FIG. 4A shows the resulting digital signal sample vector S 22 after the interpolation circuit 20 applies the interpolation functions 42 defined by the matrix Z to the complex symbols 16 according to the expression S=ZC. As part of this implementation, the sampling module 25 is not generally used as the digital signal sample vector S 22 is directly generated from the discrete signal of mapped symbols using the transformation function S=ZC.



Turning to FIG. 4B, a digital processing system 50 provides another technique for obtaining the vector of digital signal samples S. A DFT circuit 52 receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols C.sub.i and calculates the frequency responses A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M, at tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT). The vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 54 output by the DFT circuit 52 is then expanded to a new vector of length N (the total number of time instants in the discrete signal vector S) by zero insertion at block 56. More specifically, this process involves putting the k.sup.th symbol A.sub.k to the i(k).sup.th element of the new vector, for k=1, . . . , M, where f.sub.i(k) is the k.sup.th tone allocated to the transmitter, and inserting zeros in all the remaining elements. Finally, an IDFT circuit 58 performs an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform on the resulting vector (after zero insertion) to obtain the digital signal sample vector S. The collective procedure of DFT, zero insertion and IDFT is one way of implementing the discrete interpolation functions.



Turning to FIG. 4C, another technique for obtaining the digital signal samples S is shown. For simplicity of description, it is assumed that the allocated contiguous tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) are centered at frequency 0. The construction for the other cases where the allocated tones are not centered at frequency 0 can be similarly obtained. As with FIG. 4A, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over the entire OFDM symbol duration 40.



The complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped in the time domain to time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M respectively. Next, the mapped symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated to an expanded set of prescribed time instants, which is a superset of t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M and consists of an infinite number of equally-spaced time instants covering the time interval from -.infin. to +.infin.. This technique creates an infinite series of mapped symbols C. The continuous function CF(t) is then constructed by interpolating the infinite series of mapped symbols using a sinc interpolation function 60. Mathematically, the above steps construct the continuous function CF(t) as



.function..times..times..infin..infin..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00005## where sinc(a,b)=sin(.pi.a/b)/(.pi.a/b). The sinc interpolation function 60 can also be precomputed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23. As discussed in FIG. 3A the digital signal samples S 22 are the samples of the continuous function CF(t) at time instants 0, T/N, . . . , T(N-1)/N. In FIGS. 4A-4C, if N is a multiple of M, then S.sub.1+(k-1)N/M=C.sub.k, for k=1, . . . , M. It should be noted that the continuous function CF(t) only applies to the symbol duration 40 from 0 to T. The use of time interval from -.infin. to +.infin. is solely for the purpose of mathematically constructing CF(t). The discrete interpolation functions, which combine the continuous interpolation functions and the sampling function, can be derived easily from the above description.



For comparison purposes, FIG. 4D illustrates the resulting peak-to-average ratio for a digital signal sample vector S 62 and its associated transmitted OFDM signal 64 produced by symbols 16 where the signal is constructed in the frequency domain. As described above, this known technique of mapping the symbols 16 in the frequency domain produces a large signal variation in the transmitted OFDM signal 64 and results in a large peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 4E illustrates the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 66 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 68. As will be appreciated by comparing FIGS. 4D and 4E, mapping the constellation of complex symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 68 having a significantly reduced peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 5A shows a second implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, and serves to further generalize the system shown in FIGS. 4A-4C. As part of OFDM system 10, tones, f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), allocated to the transmitter associated with the communication system, are a subset of equally-spaced tones in the tone set f.sub.1, f.sub.2, f.sub.F. Therefore, f.sub.i(k)=f.sub.0+(k-1)L.DELTA., for k=1, . . . , M, and L is a positive integer number representing the spacing between two adjacent allocated frequency tones. When L=1, this implementation is equivalent to the implementation technique described in FIGS. 4A-4C. For the sake of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



In this case where the allocated tones are equally-spaced tones, the constructed continuous function CF(t) is identical in each of the L time intervals, [0,T/L), [T/L,2T/L), . . . , and [(L-1)T/L, T/L). As part of this technique, symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are mapped to the following time instants t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M/L, for k=1, . . . , M. In this implementation, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over a fraction (1/L) of the symbol duration 70. As a comparison, in the case of allocated contiguous tones (FIG. 4A), the prescribed time instants are equally-spaced and distributed over the entire symbol duration, as discussed with respect to FIG. 4A.



The procedure for obtaining the digital signal samples S 22 described in FIG. 4A can also be applied with respect to FIG. 5A. More specifically, the digital signal sample vector S is the product of matrix Z (defining the discrete interpolation functions) and the symbol vector C. Given the choice of the allocated frequency tones and prescribed time instants, the matrix Z, which is used to generate the digital signal samples 22 from the discrete signal of mapped symbols, can be simplified to the same formula as in FIG. 4A with the only change in the definition of f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) and t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



In FIG. 5B, the procedure of obtaining the digital signal sample vector S 22 described in FIG. 4B can also be applied to the case of allocated frequency tones that are equally spaced tones. More specifically, a digital processing system 100 provides another technique for obtaining the vector of digital signal samples S. A DFT circuit 102 receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols C.sub.i and calculates the frequency responses, A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M at tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M)), through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT). The vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 104 output by the DFT circuit 102 is then expanded to a new vector of length N (the total number of time instants in the digital signal sample vector S) by zero insertion at block 106. More specifically, this process involves putting the k.sup.th symbol A.sub.k to the i(k)th element of the new vector, for k=1, . . . , M, where f.sub.i(k) is the k.sup.th tone allocated to the transmitter, and inserting zeros in all the remaining elements. Finally, an IDFT circuit 108 performs an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform on the resulting vector (after zero insertion) to obtain the time domain digital signal sample vector S. The collective procedure of DFT, zero insertion and IDFT is one way of implementing the discrete interpolation functions.



FIG. 5C is the counterpart of FIG. 4C, where symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped to t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M respectively over a fraction (1/L) of the symbol duration 70. The symbol mapping is also performed in the time domain. Next the mapped symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated to an expanded set of prescribed time instants from -.infin. to +.infin. which creates an infinite series of symbols. The continuous function CF(t) is then constructed by interpolating the infinite series of mapped symbols with a sinc interpolation function 72. Thus, the continuous function CF(t) includes the digital signal samples mapped to the prescribed time instants as well as digital sample points between the prescribed time instants. Mathematically, the above steps construct the continuous function as



.function..times..times..times..infin..infin..times..times..times..times..- function..times..times. ##EQU00006## With continued reference to FIG. 5C, each sinc interpolation function 72 is narrower and therefore decays faster than the sinc interpolation function 60 shown in FIG. 4C. The sinc interpolation function 72 can also be precomputed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23 for use by the interpolation function module 21. The digital sample vector S 22 can be obtained in the same technique shown in FIG. 4C. In FIGS. 5A and 5C, if N is a multiple of ML, then S.sub.1+(k-1)N/M/L+(j-1)N/L=C.sub.k, for k=1, . . . , M, and j=1, . . . , L. The discrete interpolation functions, which combine the continuous interpolation functions and the sampling function, can be derived easily from the above description.



FIG. 5D illustrates the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 74 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 76. As will be appreciated by comparing FIGS. 4D and 5D, mapping the constellation of complex symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 76 having a significantly lower peak-to-average ratio.



Referring now to FIG. 6, a .pi./4 symbol rotation technique is used to further reduce the peak-to-average ratio of the transmitted OFDM signal. At an OFDM symbol duration, if symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M of the constellation are to be transmitted, symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M are mapped to another block of complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M, where each odd number symbol remains unchanged and each even number symbol is phase rotated by .pi./4. For example, if symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M belong to a QPSK constellation {0, .pi./2, .pi., .pi.3/2}, the odd number symbols C.sub.k still belong to the same QPSK constellation, while after being phase rotated the even number symbols C.sub.k belong to another QPSK constellation {.pi./4, .pi.3/4, .pi.5/4, .pi.7/4}. Symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are then used to construct the digital signal samples 22 in the time domain as described above with respect to FIGS. 3A-5C.



With reference to FIG. 7, another technique for reducing the peak-to-average ratio is shown, which introduces a cyclic offset of the real and imaginary signal components. This technique involves a first step of offsetting the imaginary components of the digital signal samples S 22, which have been generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C, by an integer number of samples. If necessary, the technique then involves a second step of adjusting the timing by a fraction of a sample period between the real and the imaginary signal components in the transmit path.



At an OFDM symbol duration, if the digital signal samples S.sub.1, S.sub.2, . . . , S.sub.N have been obtained using the method as described in FIGS. 3A-5C, the digital signal sample vector S is then mapped to another vector S' as follows. The real component of digital signal sample S'.sub.k is equal to that of digital signal sample S.sub.k. The imaginary component of digital signal sample S'.sub.k is equal to that of digital signal sample S.sub.1 where index j=(k+d-1)mod N+1, for k=1, . . . , N, with mod representing a module operation. The parameter d is an integer representing the cyclic offset, in terms of number of samples, between the real and imaginary components.



In one implementation, the value of d is determined by



.times. ##EQU00007## where L is discussed in FIG. 5A. In one aspect of this technique, d is chosen to be close to



.times. ##EQU00008## For example, d can be the integer closest to



.times. ##EQU00009## the largest integer not greater than



.times. ##EQU00010## or the smallest integer not smaller than



.times. ##EQU00011## In one example, d is chosen to be the largest integer not greater than



.times. ##EQU00012## This example can be easily extended for other choices of d.



The digital signal sample vector S' is then passed to the cyclic prefix prepender circuit 24, as shown in FIG. 1. Therefore, the operation of half symbol cyclic shifting is carried out before the operation of prepending the cyclic prefix, such as that performed by the cyclic prefix circuit 24 of FIG. 1.



Not specifically shown in FIG. 7, when or after the sample vector S' and the cyclic prefix are outputted to the digital to analog converter 28, the imaginary components are further delayed by an amount of



.times..times. ##EQU00013## which is a fraction of a sample period T/N.



As a variation of the technique shown in FIG. 7 (not specifically shown), another technique for achieving a similar result can be used to eliminate the second step of adjusting timing by a fraction of a sample period between the real and the imaginary signal components in the transmit path. As part of this technique, the real and the imaginary components of the desired digital signal samples S 22 are generated separately as described by the following.



A first series of digital signal samples 22 are generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C. The real components of the desired digital signal samples 22 are equal to those of the first series of samples. A second series of digital signal samples 22 are generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C except for the following changes. The imaginary components of the desired digital signal samples are equal to those of the second series of samples. In the general method described in FIGS. 3, 4A, and 5A, the matrix



e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..time- s..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..time- s..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times..times. ##EQU00014## is changed to



e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..function..times.e.times..times- ..pi..times..times..function..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..t- imes..function..function..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..f- unction..function..times..times. ##EQU00015##



In the block diagram method described with regard to FIG. 4B, an additional operation is required after zero insertion (block 56) and before N-point IDFT (block 58), where each element k in the expanded length N vector is phase rotated by



e.times..times..pi..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00016##



Referring to FIGS. 8A-8D, another technique for further reducing the peak-to-average ratio is implemented by allocating more frequency tones than the number of complex symbols to be transmitted in a symbol duration 40. In FIGS. 3-7, the number of tones allocated to the transmitter associated with the communication system is equal to the number of symbols to be transmitted in a given OFDM symbol duration. Compared with the other techniques described with respect to the previous figures, the technique of FIGS. 8A-8D requires additional overhead of bandwidth to transmit the same number of complex symbols.



For example, if the communication system 10 is allocated M+M.sub.ex contiguous frequency tones, f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), f.sub.i(M+Mex), and M symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M of the constellation are to be transmitted at an OFDM symbol duration, from the comparison of FIGS. 4A and 5A, the case of allocated contiguous tones can be easily extended to the case of allocated equally-spaced tones. As part of this implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, M.sub.ex is a positive number representing the number of excess tones to be used and is assumed to be an even number. Therefore, the allocated tone



.function..times..DELTA. ##EQU00017## for k=1, . . . , M+M.sub.ex. For purposes of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



As with the technique described with respect to FIG. 4A, the prescribed time instants are t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M, for k=1, . . . , M, that is, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants in the symbol duration 40.



As part of this technique shown in FIG. 8A, P(f) is a smooth windowing function 90 in the frequency domain, which is non-zero only over interval [f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(M+Mex)]. In addition, P(f) 90 also satisfies the Nyquist zero intersymbol interference criterion, i.e.,



.infin..infin..times..times..DELTA. ##EQU00018## for any frequency f, where .DELTA. is the spacing between adjacent tones.



FIG. 8B shows the block diagram of the technique. As described above, a symbol-to-symbol mapping is optionally performed to generate a discrete signal of mapped complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M, 16. The frequency responses A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M 84 are calculated through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of the complex symbols 16 at block 82. At block 86, vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 84 is cyclically expanded to a new vector A' of length N and windowed with a windowing function 90 as follows: A'.sub.k=A.sub.g(k)*P((k-1).DELTA.+f.sub.1) where index g(k)=mod(k-i(1)-M.sub.ex/2, M)+1, for k=1, . . . , N.



At block 88, the digital signal sample vector S is obtained by taking an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) of the new vector A'. Finally, the cyclic prefix is added by cyclic prefix circuit 24 as described above with regard to FIG. 1.



To provide additional insight to the above signal construction technique, assume that the allocated tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M+Mex) are centered at frequency 0. In FIG. 8C (as with FIG. 4C), symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped to equally-spaced time instants in the symbol duration 40, and are then leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated from -.infin. to +.infin.. What is different from FIG. 4C is that a different interpolation function 92, which is determined by the windowing function 90, is used to generate the continuous function, CF(t)=.SIGMA..sub.i=1.sup.MC.sub.i.SIGMA..sub.k=-.infin..sup..infin.p(t-t- .sub.i-kT) where p(t) 92 is the time domain response of P(t) 90. As with FIG. 4C, the digital signal samples are obtained by letting t=0, T/N, T(N-1)/N.



In one exemplary aspect of this technique, if a raised cosine windowing function is used, i.e.,



.function.<.beta..times..times..times..times..function..pi..times..beta- ..times..times..times..beta..times..times..beta..times..times..ltoreq..lto- req..beta..times..times.>.beta..times..times. ##EQU00019## where .beta.=(M.sub.ex+2)/M represents the percentage of excess tone overhead, then, the interpolation function p(t) 92 is given by



.function..function..pi..times..times..pi..times..times..times..pi..beta..- times..times..times..beta..times..times. ##EQU00020## As .beta. increases, the interpolation function p(t) 92 decays faster, thereby reducing the probability of having large peak at samples between t.sub.i.



FIG. 8D shows the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 94 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 96. As will be appreciated, mapping the constellation symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 96 having a significantly lower peak-to-average signal ratio.



A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

PatentNumber=7916625,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The systems and methods of this invention generally relate to communication systems. In particular, the systems and methods of this invention relate to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) communication systems, methods and protocols.



2. Description of Related Art



The IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards for wireless LANs, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, herein after referred to as 803.11a/g, specify wireless local area network communication systems in the 5 GHz and 2.4 GHz bands. These standards specify the use of OFDM as the modulation method used for communication. OFDM is a multicarrier modulation scheme that performs well in wireless communication channels. The 802.11a/g standards provide data rates of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbps. Different data rates are achieved by transmitting different, but constant, numbers of bits on all carriers in the multicarrier system and by operating at different coding rates. Table 1 below illustrates the coding rate and bits per subcarrier for each data rate for an exemplary 802.11a/g transceiver.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 DATARATE Bits per Subcarrier (Mbps) Coding Rate (R) (N_BPSC) 6 1/2 1 9 3/4 1 12 1/2 2 18 3/4 2 24 1/2 4 36 3/4 4 48 2/3 6 54 3/4 6



In order to determine the appropriate transmission data rate, the 802.11a/g transmitter uses a trial and error method of transmitting at various data rates, starting with, for example, the highest or last successful transmission rate, and waits for a positive acknowledgement indication from the receiver that the packet was successfully received. This simple positive acknowledgment indication method is used to optimize communications in conventional 802.11a based wireless systems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and methods of this invention use messages transmitted between a receiver and a transmitter to maximize the communication data rate. In particular, and in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a multicarrier modulation system uses messages that are sent from the receiver to the transmitter to exchange optimized communication parameters. The transmitter then stores these communication parameters and when transmitting to that particular receiver, the transmitter utilizes the stored parameters in an effort to maximize the data rate to that receiver. Likewise, when the receiver receives packets from that particular transmitter, the receiver can utilize the stored communication parameters for reception.



Accordingly, aspects of the invention relate to multicarrier modulation communication systems.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communication systems that transmit messages between transceivers.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to transmitting messages between a plurality of transceivers in an effort to optimize a data communication rate.



Further aspects of the invention relate to exchanging optimized communication parameters between a plurality of receivers in a multicarrier modulation system.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to exchanging communication parameters between a plurality of transceivers in a wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communications network to regulate the data rate between the transceivers.



These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or apparent from, the following detailed description of the embodiments.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The embodiments of the invention will be described in detailed, with reference to the following figures, wherein:



FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram illustrating an exemplary communication system according to this invention;



FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the components of a first and a second transceiver according to this invention;



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary communication method according to this invention;



FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary extended signal field according to this invention;



FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary communication system according to this invention; and



FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary transceiver in accordance with the second exemplary embodiment of this invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and the methods of this invention will be described in relation to a multicarrier modulation communication system. However, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention, the following description omits well-known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized. For the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein. For example, the systems and methods of this invention can generally be applied to any type of communications system including wired communication systems, wireless communication systems, such as wireless LANs, power line communication systems, wired or wireless telephone line communication systems, or any combination thereof.



Furthermore, while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the communication system collocated, it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network and/or the Internet, or within a dedicated multicarrier modulation system. Thus, it should be appreciated that the components of the communication system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network. It will be appreciated from the following description, and for reasons of computational efficiency, that the components of the communications system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system.



Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links, or any combination thereof, or any other known or later developed element(s) that is capable of supplying and/or communicating information to and from the connected elements. Additionally, the term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element.



Additionally, while this invention will be described in the relation to multicarrier modulation systems, the systems and methods of this invention can be applied to any communication system or transport protocol for transmitting information.



FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary communication system 1. Communication system 1 comprises one or more stations 10 and an access point (AP) 20. This exemplary embodiment illustrates a wireless LAN where a plurality of stations 10 communication with the access point 20. In particular, in its exemplary wireless LAN, multiple stations 10 share a common communication medium. One possible configuration includes an access point 20 that is used to communicate between the stations 10 (BSS). The access point 20 provides the local relay functionality between the stations 10 and to, for example, other wired and/or wireless networks (not shown). Therefore, when station 1 communicates with station 2, the communication, e.g., a packet, is sent from station 1 to the access point 20, and then from the access point 20 to station 2. For this reason, in most cases a station 10 is only transmitting packets to the access point 20 and receiving packets from the access point 20. The access point 20 on the other hand, must communicate with all the stations 10 in the network.



Another possible configuration does not rely on an access point 20, but instead communications take place directly between the stations 10 (IBSS) in the network illustrated by the dashed lines in FIG. 1. In this embodiment, where communications occur directly between the stations 10, there are no relay functions served by the access point 20.



In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the wireless network relies on communicating parameters between a plurality of transceivers and in particular from a receiver to a transmitter. These parameters are stored at the transmitter and are used for subsequent transmission of packets to the receiver the parameters were received from. Thus, the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well whether the network is configured to have an access point 20, or not, as each station, including the access point, if used, maintains tables comprising the communication parameters.



Several different types of communication parameters can be sent from the receiver to the transmitter to optimize communication to, for example, increase or decrease the data rate. In general, any parameter that can modify performance can be included in the message. The following examples are the more common types of communication parameters that can be exchanged between the receiver and the transmitter.



The Bit Allocation Table (BAT)--the bit allocation table in multicarrier modulation systems specify the number of bits modulated on each carrier, which are also referred to as subchannels, subcarriers, tones or bins, in a multicarrier modulation system. The 802.11a/g transceivers use the same number of bits on all subchannels, which is the simplest type of bit allocation table. Since wireless communications experience multipath, the communications channel is not flat in frequency, which means that different subcarriers will have different signal to noise ratios (SNRs). Therefore, in order to achieve a constant bit error rate (BER) on all carriers, a bit allocation table is used so that carriers with a higher SNR modulate more bits than carriers with a lower SNR. This process is often referred to as "bit loading." Bit loading and the use of a bit allocation table has been used in ADSL multicarrier communication systems for years. For example, ITU standards G.992.1 and G.992.2, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are international ADSL standards that specify communication using bit loading and bit allocation tables. Bit loading also enables using constellation sizes much higher than 64 QAM (6 bit) which is the maximum constellation size of standard 802.11a/g systems. Bit loading constellations that modulate up to 15 bits, or more, can be used, if supported by the channel, thereby achieving significant data rate improvements.



Coded modulation parameters--systems that use coded modulation techniques, such as trellis coded modulation and turbo coded modulation, achieve much higher coding advantages than systems that do not combine modulation and forward error correction encoding. However, coded modulation schemes do not encode all information bits and therefore coded modulation must be combined with bit loading in multipath channels in order to achieve the coding gain benefits.



Variable cyclic prefix length--the cyclic prefix (CP) is used in multicarrier systems to combat multipath. In general, as long as the impulse response of the channel is less than the CP length, there will be no inter-symbol interference (ISI) or inter-channel (ICI) interference due to the channel multipath. However, since the CP is a redundant cyclic extension added to every communication symbol, the CP also results in a data rate loss. The 802.11a/g standards use a fixed CP with a length of 0.8 microseconds, which is 20% of the symbol length. Therefore, the addition of the CP results in a 20% data rate reduction. This is a good tradeoff if the channel is approximately the same length as a CP. However, if the channel is much shorter, e.g., only 0.1 microseconds, then it makes sense to decrease the CP length to 0.1 microseconds in order to get a 19% data rate improvement. Likewise, if the channel is much longer than 0.8 microseconds, the CP should be extended to match the length of the channel because significant levels of ISI and ICI will probably greatly reduce the achievable data rate.



Variable pilot tone allocation--standard 802.11a/g receivers use four fixed pilot tones that are spread across the transmission frequency band. This is necessary in 802.11a/g systems since the transmitter does not know which portions of the frequency bands are in deep nulls due to multipath. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the receiver can communicate to the transmitter which carrier should be used for pilot tones. Since the receiver can determine which carriers have a high SNR, the receiver can instruct the transmitter to place pilot tones on those high SNR carriers. In fact, in many cases, a single high SNR carrier is sufficient to be used for all timing recovery requirements thereby allowing the system to transmit data on the three carriers that the 802.11a/g systems use for pilot tones. This also provides a data rate increase when compared to standard 802.11a/g systems.



Alternatively, the communication system may not have any carriers dedicated as pilot tones, i.e., all carriers that are modulated are modulated with information bits. In this case, a carrier that carries information bits may be used to perform "decision-directed" timing recovery algorithms. For example, a carrier that is used for this type of decision-directed algorithm will often carry fewer bits than actually possible at the specified BER in order to provide a reference signal with a high SNR.



Fine gains per carrier--Fine gains are used in ADSL standards such as G.992.1 to equalize the BER across all the carriers when bit loading is used. Fine gains are small adjustments in the transmit power level that enable a subchannel to achieve the BER required by the system based on the specific measure of SNR.



Throughout the following discussion, exemplary embodiments of this invention will be directed toward the bit allocation tables (BATs) as the primary optimized communication parameter that is being exchanged between the stations. This is done because the use of BATs is one of the most effective ways to achieve optimized communication and to modify data rates. However, it is to be appreciated that other communication parameters including, but not limited to, fine gains, trellis coded modulation, pilot tone location, variable cyclic prefix length, and the like, can also be exchanged, with or without BATs, between stations to realize a change in data rate.



To implement a change in data rates, a message containing the communication parameters is sent from a receiver to a transmitter. These communication parameters can be communicated in a plurality of ways. For example, the communication parameters can be sent to the transmitter as part of a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, after receiving the positive acknowledgment packet, the transmitter would use the communication parameters contained in the positive acknowledgment packet for the transmission of subsequent packets. The communication parameters could also be sent, for example, as part of a management or data frame that is intended to communicate information between the transceivers. For example, the communication parameters could be sent as part of an extended header field of any packet sent between the transceivers.



The exemplary embodiment of the protocol used for exchanging communication parameters in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 1 and 2. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary network 1, such as a wireless network. The network 1 comprises a plurality of stations 10 interconnected by a plurality of links and an access point 20. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the components associated with a first and a second transceiver, e.g., the stations 10 or the access point 20. In particular, the first transceiver 100 comprises a message determination module 110, a communication parameter determination module 120, a packet determination module 130, a transmitter 140, a receiver 150, a memory 160, and a controller 170, all connected by a link (not shown). The second transceiver 200 comprises a message determination module 210, a communication parameter determination module 220, a packet determination module 230, a transmitter 240, a receiver 250, a memory 260, and a controller 270, all connected by a link (not shown).



For ease of illustration the exemplary method used for the high rate OFDM communication systems will be discussed in relation to a first transceiver sending packets to a second transceiver. For example, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver the access point 20. Alternatively, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver, station 1, or the like. The relevant portion of the protocol commences with the first transceiver sending a packet at one of a highest possible data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps for 802.11a/g, at the data rate of the last successful transmission, or at a known data rate.



Specifically, the packet determination module 130, in cooperation with the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170 coordinate the transmission of this first packet, i.e., before any optimized communication parameters are exchanged, and transmit the packet using standard size fixed communication parameter settings such as those specified in IEEE 802.11a/g, e.g., fixed six bits per tone on all carriers.



Next, if the second transceiver's receiver 250 successfully receives the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet again with the cooperation of the packet determination modulation 230, the transmitter 240, the memory 260 and the controller 270. This positive acknowledgment packet also comprises optimized communication parameters determined by the communication parameter determination module 220 to be used by the second transceiver 200 for subsequent reception of packets from the first transceiver 100. For example, the positive acknowledgment packet may contain a BAT with different bits per subcarrier based on, for example, the channel characteristics as measured by the second transceiver 200 and determined by the communication parameter determination module 220. Alternatively, or in addition, this acknowledgment packet may also indicate any of the optimized transmission parameters described above, e.g., which one or more carriers should be used as pilot tones as discussed above.



If the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 does not return to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, the first transceiver 100, again in cooperation with the packet determination module 130, the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170, sends a packet at the next highest or another known standard data rate.



If the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment packet, the first transceiver 100, in cooperation with memory 160 stores the optimized communication parameters. The first transceiver 100 then uses the stored communication parameters for transmission of subsequent packets to the second transceiver 200. The use of the optimized communication parameters is indicated in the header field of the packet sent from the first transceiver 100 to the second transceiver 200. For example, the message determination module 110 modifies the header field to indicate which optimized communication parameters are being used.



The second transceiver's receiver 250 receives the packet from the first transceiver 100 and determines which communication parameters were used based on the information in the data field of the packet. This is accomplished by, for example, decoding the header field of the packet that indicates that optimized communication parameters are being used. The packet can then be demodulated and decoded based on the information contained in the data field in association with the message determination/decoded module 210 using the optimized communication parameters that were sent from the second transceiver to the first transceiver in the previous positive acknowledgement packet.



After the second transceiver 200 receives from the first transceiver 100 the packet which has the header field specifying which optimize communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 sends a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. This positive acknowledgment may contain the same parameters as used for the last successful received packet as an indication to the second transceiver 200 to continue transmitting with the stored optimized communication parameters. Equivalently, the positive acknowledgment may be just a basic acknowledgment packet, as in conventional 802.11a/g systems, to indicate that the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver and communication should continue using the same optimized communication parameters. In the event that optimized communication parameters accompany every positive acknowledgement during an extended communication session, this mechanism effectively tracks



Alternatively, the second transceiver 200 may send a new, second set of optimized communication parameters in the acknowledgment message. These new parameters could, for example, request a change in data rate, such as a higher data rate. In this case, the first transceiver 100 could start using the second set of optimized communication parameters for transmission after receiving the acknowledgment packet.



In the case where the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet transmitted by the first transceiver 100 that has the modified header field specifying which communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 will not send a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. In this case, the first transceiver 100 would determine that the optimized communication parameters are no longer valid and will start the protocol all over again by going back to the first step were the first transceiver 100 will commence communication at a known data rate, such as the highest data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps in 802.11a/g systems, using the fixed/standard communication parameters.



In the case were the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment from the second transceiver 200 after transmitting a packet using the first set of optimized parameters, and this positive acknowledgment contains a new, second set of optimized parameters, these new parameters should be used for subsequent transmission of packets. However, if the second transceiver 200 does not receive a positive acknowledgment packet after sending a packet using the second set of optimize parameters, then the second transceiver 200 reverts back to the first step of the protocol were a packet is sent at a known e.g., next highest data. However, in this case, the first transceiver may start by transmitting using the first set of optimized communication parameters or by transmitting at a data rate using a fixed/standard communication parameter, e.g., 54 Mbps in the 802.11a/g standard.



Alternatively, or further in addition, the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 may periodically send "reference" or "training" packets that can be used by the receiver portion of the transceiver in conjunction with the communication parameter determination module to determine the optimized transmission parameters. For example, these training packets can be packets that contain signals that are known to the transceivers in advance. For example, the training packets can be non-information carrying packets that are sent during times when there is no data to be sent between the stations and the network. Since these packets are predefined and known to the receiver prior to reception, the receivers can use them to accurately measure the effects of the channel, such as the multipath profile, the SNR per carrier, or the like. These training packets can also be used to train receiver equalizers that are used to equalize, for example, the wireless channel and/or receiver filters and/or transmitter filters.



In conventional wireless LAN systems, every packet contains a header field that indicates the data rate used for transmitting the data field of the packet. The header field is transmitted using a fixed modulation/encoding scheme, such as in the 802.11a/g standard, and therefore can be demodulated by all stations. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header field will also indicate whether optimized communication parameters were used for transmitting the data field in the packet. This could be done in several ways. For example, the header field could contain the indication of the data rate as in 802.11a/g. Alternatively, the header field could contain a bit field that indicates whether the optimized communication parameters are to be used. This bit field could be a single bit that indicates either to use the last exchanged optimized communication parameters, or one of the standard fixed communication parameters. Alternatively, the bit field could be a plurality of bits indicating one of a plurality of sets of optimized communication parameters.



In the example of a network with a access point 20, each station transmitter would store optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. These optimized parameters would be generated by the access point 20 receiver and sent to the station(s) as described above. Obviously, since each station 10 is in a different location, and could possibly move, each station transmitter would probably have different optimized parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. The access point 20 must also store these optimized parameters to be used by the access point 20 receiver when receiving packets from the various stations 10. For each station 10, the access point 20 may have a different set of optimize parameters. Since the access point 20 receives packets from all stations, the access point 20 must be able to determine the parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. The access point 20 can use the packet header to determine whether the optimized parameters have been used, but since the access point 20 does not know which station actually sent the packet, the access point 20 may not be able to determine the correct parameters based on the header alone.



Accordingly, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header also includes a bit field that indicates which station sent the packet. In this case, the access point 20 would use that information to determine which set of parameters should be used. Alternatively, the access point 20 may use other measures to determine which station sent the packet. For example, the access point 20 could use the power of the received signal, the channel estimate based on frequency equalizer taps, carrier offset values, or the like.



In the example of a network, such as a wireless LAN, with an access point 20, the access point transmitter would store the optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to a specific station 10. These optimized communication parameters would be generated by the station receiver and sent to the access point 20 as described above. Obviously, since each station is in a different location, the access point 20 could have a plurality of sets of different optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the different stations 10. Each station 10 would then also store the optimize communication parameters corresponding to that station to be used by the station receiver when receiving packets from the access point 20. Each station 10 should also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., SIGNAL field. Therefore, each station 10 uses the packet header to determine whether the optimized communication parameters have been used. Unlike the access point receiver, each station receiver is intended to receive packets only from the access point 20 and therefore a station 10 may be able to determine the communication parameters based on the header alone.



Since all stations will receive packets from the access point 20, each station must also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the preamble and the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. Obviously, if the packet is not intended for a particular station receiver, the receiver may use the incorrect optimized communication parameters to receive a packet. This is actually not a problem since the packet was not intended for that receiver in the first place. However, since the protocol requires transmitters to defer to communications already in progress, every station must be able to determine various protocol counters based on the packet duration. The header must provide a way to determine the packet duration even if use of the wrong communication parameters does not permit the receiver to correctly decode the message.



As discussed above, once the receiving transceiver determines the optimized transmission parameters, the receiving transceiver needs to send this information to the transmitting transceiver to be used for subsequent communication between the two devices. Furthermore, as discuss above, the optimized transmission information can be sent as part of an acknowledgment packet. Alternatively, or in addition, the optimized transmission parameters can be exchanged as part of a management frame or regular information carrying frame on a periodic or, for example, triggered basis. In either case, the optimized transmission parameters can be sent as part of an extended packet header field, also known as the SIGNAL field, or as part of the packet information field. In the case of an extended packet header field, the information is sent at a fixed rate and can be decoded by all systems in the network. For example, a bit in the packet header field can be used to indicate that a new set of optimized transmission parameters has been appended to an extended packet header field.



In the latter case, the information can be sent using optimized parameters for communication. Note that in this case the optimized transmission parameters that are used for transmitting the optimized transmission parameter information from the receiver to the transmitter are not the same. For example, assume that the receiver of the first transceiver 150 determines optimized transmission information for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The first transceiver's transmitter 140 sends a packet to the second transceiver's receiver 250 where the packet contains the optimized transmission parameters for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The packet that is sent from the first transceiver's transmitter 140 to the second transceiver's receiver 250 may be sent using a standard fixed rate, as is done in conventional 802.11a/g systems, or may be sent using optimized transmission parameters communicated between the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200. Obviously, the optimized transmission parameters used for transmission from the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 would have been exchanged earlier in the communications session.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating a general exemplary method of exchanging communication parameters according to this invention. Specifically, control begins in step S100 and continues to step S110. In step S110, a first transceiver (designated T1) determines and sends a packet that is at least one of a known, highest, last successful or changed rate to a second transceiver (designated T2). Next, in step S120, a determination is made whether the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver. If the packet was not successfully received, control jumps to step S130. Otherwise, control continues to step S140.



In step S130, the communication parameters specifying the data rate are incremented/decremented as appropriate. Control then continues back to step S110.



In step S140, the second transceiver returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment that may or may not comprise optimized communication parameters. If the positive acknowledgement contains optimized communication parameters, the second transceiver stores these parameters. Next, in step S150, the first transceiver receives the acknowledgment. Then, in step S160, the first transceiver stores the optimized communication parameters if the positive acknowledgment returned from the second transceiver contains communication parameters. Control then continues to step S170.



In step S170, the first transceiver determines a header field. Next, in step S180, the first transceiver commences communication using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S190, a determination is made whether the second transceiver received the packet. If the packet was received, control continues to S200. Otherwise, control jumps to S130.



In S200, the second transceiver decodes the header field and determines the communication parameters that were used. Next, in S210, the second transceiver demodulates and decodes the data field using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in S220, the second transceiver determines the acknowledgment to return to the first transceiver. Control then continues to S230.



In S230, the second transceiver sends the acknowledgment to the first transceiver. This message may or may not contain optimized communication parameters. Control then continues to S240 where the control sequence ends.



The basic concepts discussed above can also be extended to legacy systems. In the following discussion, stations that only implement the current 802.11a/g standard will be referred to as legacy stations. Stations that are enabled with the methods of this invention to provide high data rate communications with optimized communication parameters will be referred to as extended rate (ER) stations. The method and protocols that enable exchanging, transmitting and receiving using these optimized communication parameters are referred to as extended rate systems and protocols. In this exemplary embodiment, an extended rate station also supports the current 802.11a/g standard.



For example, FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary communication system 500 that comprises a plurality of extended rate stations 510, 520, one or more legacy stations 530 and, for example, an access point 540.



When operating in an environment with legacy stations 530 and extended rate stations 510, 520 there are two main interoperability requirements to ensure network stability. First, a legacy station 530 must be able to receive the ER packet header (SIGNAL field) and use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will guarantee that the legacy station 530 will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



Secondly, an extended rate station 510, 520 must be able to determine the transmission parameters e.g., the bit allocation table, based on an extended rate packet header if the packet is intended for that station. In addition, an extended rate station that was not intended to receive the packet must also use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will ensure that the extended rate station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



In an effort to ensure the two above requirements are met, FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary modified packet header using an extended signal field. In this illustrative 802.11a example, the SIGNAL field is extended. The first part of the extended SIGNAL field has a structure identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field header. The first symbol of the extended SIGNAL field is modulated according to the SIGNAL modulation encoding parameters as specified in IEEE 802.11a for the standard SIGNAL field, i.e., 6 Mbps BPSK, code rate=1/2. Therefore, a legacy station can correctly receive the signal field bits from the first part of the extended SIGNAL field.



The second part of the extended signal field in the next symbol contains the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) station identifiers. These extended signal field bits are also modulated using the 802.11a 6 Mbps, code rate=1/2 modulation method. In FIG. 4, these extended signal field bits are sent in the second symbol of the extended signal field header that corresponds to the data symbol number one in a standard 802.11a system.



Since there are both legacy and extended rate stations in the exemplary communication system 500 illustrated in FIG. 5, an extended rate station needs to be able to determine and identify when a received packet contains an extended signal field header, which is contained in two symbols, as opposed to a standard 802.11a header, which contained in only one symbol. This can be accomplished by setting a bit in the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field. This bit will be referred to as the ER-enable bit. As an example, the 802.11a reserved bit between the rate field and the length field can be used as the ER-enable bit. For example, when this reserved bit (R) is set to 1, this indicates that an extended rate header is being used. When the reserved bit (R) is set to 0, this indicates that a standard 802.11a header is being used.



Again with reference to FIG. 5, two ER stations 510 and 520 are illustrated along with a legacy station 530 and an extended rate access point 540. The various links in FIG. 5 represent, for example, the communication paths of an extended rate packet where the ER-enable bit (R) is flagged in the reserved bit R position and the TX/RX STA ID (Transmitter/Receiver Station Identifier) is present in the extended SIGNAL field.



The exemplary communications that occur between the various stations will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 5 and 6. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates the exemplary components that could be present in a station illustrated in FIG. 5. In particular, the station 600 comprises a message determination module 610, a communication parameter determination module 620, a packet determination module 630, an ER detection module 640, a station ID decoder/encoder 650, a receiver 660, a transmitter 670, a memory 680 and a controller 690. Many of the components illustrated in the station 600 are comparable to those seen in the first transceiver 100 and second transceiver 200. Accordingly, the functions of those components will not be re-discussed in association with this embodiment of the invention.



Communication path 1: Transmission of packets from the access point 540 to a ER capable station, such as ER station 510.



The access point 540 forwards to the ER station 510 a packet. The ER station 510 detects the ER-enable bit with the cooperation of the ER detection module 640 and determines that the packet is an ER packet.



Next, the station ID decoder/encoder 650 decodes the RX STA ID bits and the extended header field to determine if the received packet is intended for this particular station. The ER station 510 also decodes the TX STA ID in the extended rate header with the cooperation of the station ID decoder/encoder 650 and determines if this packet is coming from the access point 540. Based on this information, the receiving extended rate station 510 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving the packets from the access point 540. The extended rate station 510 uses the optimize parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., the data field, of the packet. Naturally, the RX station had sent these optimized communication parameters to the AP earlier in the session.



Communication Path 2: Another ER-capable station, e.g., station 520, accidentally receives a packet from the access point (AP) 540.



The station 520, in cooperation with the ER detection module 640, detects the ER-enable bit in the packet sent from the access point 540, and determines that the packet is an ER packet and, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field and determines that the received packet is not intended for this particular station. The station 520 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field, as discussed below.



Since the station 520 determines that the received packet is not intended for itself, the station 520 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when a packet is received, a station can detect very early whether it is the intended recepient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet if it is not. This will, for example, save power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power required to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore, for example, the station may go into a low power mode.



Communication Path 3: The legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from the access point (AP) 540.



Legacy stations in general are not aware of ER packet headers. Therefore, the legacy station 530 will correctly decode the first part of the ER packet which is contained in the first symbol of the header field and is identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field, except for the ER-enable bit which the legacy station 530 should ignore since it is reserved.



The legacy station 530 sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE/LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below allowing correct legacy operation of the 802.11a medium occupancy algorithms. Using the spoofed RATE and LENGTH information, the legacy station 530 will incorrectly demodulate the data symbols, since the station does not know the optimized communication parameters, until eventually a CRC error will cause the packet to be ignored.



Communication Path 4: Transmission of packets from an ER-capable station 510 to an access point (AP) 540.



The access point (AP) 540 detects the ER-enable bit, determines the received packet is an ER packet and decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field to determine if the packet is intended for itself. The access point 540 also decodes the TX STA ID in the ER header and determines which station has transmitted the packet. Based on this information, the access point 540 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving packets from that particular transmitter station. The access point 540 then uses the optimized parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., DATA Field, of the packet. Of course, the access point 540 had sent the optimized communication parameters to the transmitter station earlier in the communications session.



Communication Path 5: Another ER-capable station 520 accidentally receives a packet originating from ER station 510.



The station 510 detects the ER-enable bit, with the cooperation of the ER detection module, determines this is an ER packet and decodes, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, the RX ST ID bits in the extended header field to determine that the packet is not intended for itself. The station 510 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below. Since the station 510 knows that this packet is not intended for itself, the station 510 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when this happens, a station can detect very early that it is not the intended recepient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet. This will save, for example, power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power to decode the remainer of the packet and therefore the station may, for example, go into the low power mode.



Communication Path 6: Legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from an ER-enabled station 510.



This scenario produces the same results as illustrated in relation to communication path 3.



"Spoofing" the RATE and LENGTH Field.



When a legacy station receives an ER packet, such as in communication paths 3 and 6, the legacy station must be able to determine the duration of the packet, i.e., the time required for packet transmission, based on the standard 802.11a header contained in the first symbol of the ER packet header, which every station can correctly decode. Thus, for the legacy station, R1-R4 bits, which do not have any meaning to the ER-capable RX STA, must be set to one of the legitimate patterns used in the 802.11a standard, shown in Table 1. Additionally, the LENGTH field must be filled in in conjunction with the RATE field in a way that the required time for packet transmission that the legacy RX STA would calculate based on the "spoofed" RATE and LENGTH parameters would coincide with the one that is needed by the ER RX STA using optimized communication parameters. This will guarantee that the legacy station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so the accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



A ER-capable RX STA will also exploit the spoofed RATE, LENGTH information shown in the SIGNAL field when the packet is not intended for its reception, such as in cases 2 and 5. Once the ER-capable RX STA recognizes that the reserved bit R is turned on, the ER-capable RX STA examines the extended SIGNAL symbol and, based on the RX STA ID, determines that this packet is not intended for itself. Based on the `spoofed` RATE and LENGTH information in the SIGNAL Field, the RX STA sets the counters related with virtual carrier sense algorithm in exactly the same manner as the legacy station and may then enter the power saving mode.



As an example, the ER data rate is 108 Mbps, which is twice the maximum data rate (54 Mbps) of conventional 802.11a systems. This may be achieved by, for example, bit loading and using trellis coded modulation. A system transmitting at 108 Mbps will have 432 data bits per symbol. Therefore, transmitting a packet with, for example, 864 bytes will require 864*8/432=16 symbols. In addition, the ER protocol requires an extra symbol in the ER header, as compared to standard 802.11a systems, that contains the TX and RX Station IDs. Therefore, the transmission of an 864 byte packet requires 16+1=17 symbols at 108 Mbps. In order to allow legacy 802.11a stations to correctly determine the NAV, the RATE and LENGTH Fields of the ER header need to be set so that the legacy station will also determine that 17 symbols are needed for transmission of the packet. Therefore, for example, the RATE and LENGTH fields could be set to RATE=54 Mbps and LENGTH=459 bytes. In this case, since 54 Mbps results in 216 data bits per symbol, the legacy station would determine the packet duration to be 459*8/216=17 symbols and correctly set the NAV. Obviously other RATE and LENGTH combinations can be used from the 802.11a standard to enable the legacy station to correctly set the NAV. For example, RATE=6 Mbps and LENGTH=51 bytes would also result in a packet whose data field is 17 symbols long.



In the example described above, the extended header field only contained the RX and TX STA IDs. This implies that there is only one set of optimized parameters for each TX/RX communication. In an alternative embodiment, the extended header field also, or alternatively, contains an indication of which one of a plurality of optimized communication parameters sets is to be used for transmission and reception of a packet. These parameter sets are sent from the receiver station to the transmitter station and stored in each.



The above-described communication system can be implemented on wired or wireless telecommunications devices, such a modem, a multicarrier modem, a DSL modem, an ADSL modem, an XDSL modem, a VDSL modem, a multicarrier transceiver, wired or wireless wide/local area network system, or the like, or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device. Additionally, the systems, methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element(s), an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hard-wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, modem, transmitter/receiver, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts illustrated herein can be used to implement the various communication methods according to this invention.



Furthermore, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object-oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively, the disclosed communication system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and/or efficiency requirements of the system, the particular function, and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The communication systems, methods and protocols illustrated herein however can be readily implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and telecommunications arts.



Moreover, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software executed on programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor, or the like. In these instances, the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA.RTM. or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system, or the like. The communication system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems of a communications transceiver.



It is therefore apparent that there has been provided, in accordance with the present invention, systems and methods for exchanging communication parameters. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

PatentNumber=7924699,TECHNICAL FIELD



This invention relates to an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) communication system, and more particularly to an OFDM communication system for a multiple access communication network.



BACKGROUND



Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is a relatively well known multiplexing technique for communication systems. OFDM communication systems can be used to provide multiple access communication, where different users are allocated different orthogonal tones within a frequency bandwidth to transmit data at the same time. In an OFDM communication system, the entire bandwidth allocated to the system is divided into orthogonal tones. In particular, for a given symbol duration T available for user data transmission, and a given bandwidth W, the number of available orthogonal tones F is given by WT. The spacing between the orthogonal tones .DELTA. is chosen to be 1/T, thereby making the tones orthogonal. In addition to the symbol duration T which is available for user data transmission, an additional period of time T.sub.c can be used for transmission of a cyclic prefix. The cyclic prefix is prepended to each symbol duration T and is used to compensate for the dispersion introduced by the channel response and by the pulse shaping filter used at the transmitter. Thus, although a total symbol duration of T+T.sub.c is employed for transmitting an OFDM symbol, only the symbol duration T is available for user data transmission and is therefore called an OFDM symbol duration.



In prior OFDM techniques, an OFDM signal is first constructed in the frequency domain by mapping symbols of a constellation to prescribed frequency tones. The signal constructed in the frequency domain is then transformed to the time domain by an inverse discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) or inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) to obtain the digital signal samples to be transmitted. In general, symbols of the constellation have a relatively low peak-to-average ratio property. For example, symbols of a QPSK constellation all have the same amplitude. However, after being transformed by the IDFT or IFFT, the resultant time domain signal samples are the weighted sum of all the symbols, and therefore generally do not preserve the desirable low peak-to-average ratio property. In particular, the resulting time domain signal typically has a high peak-to-average ratio.



Existing techniques for implementing OFDM communication systems can be highly inefficient due to the relatively high peak-to-average ratio when compared with other signaling schemes, such as single carrier modulation schemes. As a result, existing OFDM techniques are not well suited for a wireless multiple access communication network with highly mobile users because the high peak-to-average ratio of the transmitted signal requires a large amount of power at the base station and at the wireless device. The large power requirements result in short battery life and more expensive power amplifiers for handheld wireless communication devices or terminals. Accordingly, it is desirable to provide an OFDM technique which reduces the peak-to-average ratio of the signal to be transmitted, while simultaneously taking advantage of the larger communication bandwidth offered by an OFDM communication system.



SUMMARY



In one aspect of the communication system, power consumption associated with generating and transmitting OFDM signals is reduced as compared to the prior OFDM systems discussed above. The OFDM signaling method includes defining a constellation having a plurality of symbols, defining the symbol duration for the OFDM communication signal, and defining a plurality of time instants in the symbol duration. In a given symbol duration, a plurality of tones in the symbol duration are allocated to a particular transmitter and the signal to be transmitted is represented by a vector of data symbols from the symbol constellation. The symbols are first directly mapped to the prescribed time instants in the symbol duration. A continuous signal is then constructed by applying continuous interpolation functions to the mapped symbols such that the values of the continuous signal at the prescribed time instants are respectively equal to the mapped symbols and the frequency response of the continuous signal only contains sinusoids at the allocated tones. Finally the digital signal, which is to be transmitted, consists of samples of the continuous signal. Alternatively, the digital signal can be generated directly by applying discrete interpolation functions to the mapped symbols. As symbols from the constellation generally have good peak-to-average ratio property, proper choices of allocated frequency tones, prescribed time instants and interpolation functions can result in a minimized peak-to-average ratio of the continuous function and the digital signal samples.



In one aspect, a digital processing system is defined that is utilized in a transmitter that generates a transmission signal having a first circuit that receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols, calculates a frequency response of the discrete signal, and outputs a first vector of length M, a second circuit that receives the vector of length M and generates a second vector of length N, wherein the second vector of length N includes elements of the first vector at positions corresponding to tones allocated to the transmitter, and a third circuit that receives the second vector and generates a digital time domain vector therefrom for transmission by the transmitter.



In one aspect, an apparatus that generates a transmission signal is defined which comprises means for receiving a discrete signal of complex data symbols, calculates a frequency response of the discrete signal, and outputs a first vector of length M, means for receiving the vector of length M and generates a second vector of length N, wherein the second vector of length N includes elements of the first vector at positions corresponding to tones allocated to a transmitter, and means for generating a digital time domain vector of the second vector for transmission by the transmitter.



The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.



DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an OFDM system.



FIG. 2A is a block diagram of an interpolation system used by the OFDM system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 2B is a block diagram of another interpolation system used by the OFDM system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 3A is a graph showing symbols mapped to prescribed time instants in the time domain according to the OFDM technique implemented by the system of FIG. 1.



FIG. 3B is a graph showing the frequency domain response of the graph of FIG. 3B.



FIG. 4A shows an implementation technique for producing a digital signal sample vector using time domain symbol mapping in the case where the allocated tones are contiguous.



FIG. 4B is a block diagram showing a communication system for producing a digital signal sample vector in the case where the allocated frequency tones are contiguous.



FIG. 4C is a graph showing the mapping of the symbols to the prescribed time instants, the expansion of the mapped symbols, and the use of a sinc function to interpolate the expanded symbols.



FIG. 4D is a graph showing the large peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the frequency domain in the prior OFDM systems.



FIG. 4E is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 4A-4C.



FIG. 5A shows another implementation technique for producing the digital signal sample vector using time domain symbol mapping in the case where the allocated tones are equally spaced in frequency.



FIG. 5B is a block diagram showing a communication system for producing a digital signal sample vector in the case where the allocated frequency tones are equally spaced.



FIG. 5C is a graph showing the mapping of the symbols to the prescribed time instants, the expansion of the mapped symbols, and the use of a sinc function to interpolate the symbols.



FIG. 5D is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 5A-5C.



FIG. 6 is a graph showing .pi./4 symbol rotation.



FIG. 7 shows the use of a cyclic shift of the real and imaginary signal components.



FIG. 8A is a graph showing application of a windowing function in the frequency domain to further reduce the peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 8B is a block diagram showing a technique using more tones than the number of symbols to be transmitted for producing a digital signal sample vector.



FIG. 8C is a graph showing the use of an interpolation function corresponding to the window function of FIG. 8B to the symbols mapped to the prescribed time instants.



FIG. 8D is a graph showing the reduced peak-to-average ratio of the resulting digital signal sample vector when the symbols are mapped in the time domain using the technique of FIGS. 8A-8C.



Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



Referring to FIG. 1, an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) communication system 10 is shown. OFDM communication system 10 receives a first constellation of symbols {B.sub.i} 12 and provides the symbols to a symbol-to-symbol mapping circuit 14, that produces a second constellation of complex symbols {C.sub.i} 16. The complex symbols 16 represent data or a stream of data to be transmitted by the OFDM communication system, and may be chosen from a variety of symbol constellations including, but not limited to phase shift keying (PSK) and quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) symbol constellations. The symbol-to-symbol mapping performed by the mapping circuit 14 is an optional step performed by the OFDM communication system 10.



Next, a time instant mapping circuit 18 maps each complex symbol 16 to a prescribed time instant within a given OFDM symbol duration. The mapping operation is performed in the time domain such that the mapping circuit 18 generates a discrete signal of mapped symbols within the time domain symbol duration. The output of the mapping circuit 18 is provided to an interpolation circuit 20, that produces a series of digital signal samples {S.sub.i} 22. The digital signal samples 22 are formed by sampling a continuous signal, which is constructed by applying one or more predetermined continuous interpolation functions to the mapped complex symbols 19. Alternatively, the digital signal samples 22 are formed by directly applying one or more predetermined discrete interpolation functions to the mapped complex symbols 19. When using the technique of applying discrete interpolation functions, no intermediate continuous signal is generated and the step of sampling the continuous signal is not necessary. The operation of the interpolation circuit 20 is described in greater detail below. A cyclic prefix circuit 24 receives the series of digital signal samples 22 from the interpolation circuit 20 and prepends a cyclic prefix to the digital signal samples 22. The cyclic prefix circuit 24 operates to copy and prepend the last portion of the digital signal sample vector S 22 to the beginning of the OFDM symbol duration. The resulting digital signal samples 22 with the prepended cyclic prefix are converted to an analog signal by a digital to analog converter 28. The resulting analog signal is further processed by a pulse shaping filter 30, the output of which is modulated to a carrier frequency, and amplified by a power amplifier unit 32 for transmission through an antenna 34.



In one implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, the symbol-to-symbol mapping circuit 14, the time instant mapping circuit 18, the interpolation circuit 20, and the cyclic prefix circuit 24 are implemented in a digital signal processor (DSP) 26, and may include a combination of hardware modules and/or software modules. These circuits 14, 18, 20, and 24 can also be implemented as separate discrete circuits within the OFDM communication system 10.



The details of the interpolation circuit 20 are shown in FIG. 2A. The interpolation circuit 20 includes an interpolation function module 21 that applies one or more continuous interpolation functions to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 19 to generate a continuous signal in which signal variation between adjacent symbols is minimized. Thus, the continuous signal has a low peak-to-average ratio. The interpolation functions may be precomputed and stored in an interpolation function memory 23 connected to the interpolation function module 21. A frequency tone and time instant allocation circuit 27 is connected to the interpolation function memory 23 and defines an allocated tone set selected from frequency tones distributed over a predetermined bandwidth associated with the OFDM communication system 10. The allocated tone set is then provided to the interpolation function memory 23. The frequency tone and time instant allocation circuit 27 also defines the prescribed time instants distributed over the time domain symbol duration, which can also be stored in the interpolation function memory 23 for use by the interpolation function module 21 as well as other modules within the DSP 26. The interpolation circuit 20 also includes a sampling circuit 25 for receiving and sampling the continuous signal at discrete time instants distributed over the time domain symbol duration to generate the vector of digital signal samples 22. Alternatively, in FIG. 2B the interpolation function module 21 applies one or more discrete interpolation functions to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 19 to directly generate the digital signal sample vector 22, in which case the sampling circuit 25 (of FIG. 2A) is not needed. Through applying the discrete interpolation functions, the interpolation function module 21 effectively combines the processing steps of applying the continuous interpolation functions and sampling the intermediate continuous signal.



FIG. 3A graphically depicts the signal processing steps performed by the various circuits of the DSP 26. More specifically, FIG. 3A shows the construction of the signal to be transmitted in a given OFDM time domain symbol duration 40. The time domain symbol duration 40 is a time interval from 0 to T. For purposes of the following description, the OFDM symbol duration T does not include the cyclic prefix. The signal to be transmitted in the symbol duration 40 is represented by complex symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16 that are mapped to the prescribed time instants, where M denotes the number of symbols to be transmitted in the symbol duration 40.



In one implementation, the OFDM communication system 10 is a multiple access communication system where the entire bandwidth available to all transmitters within the system is divided into F orthogonal frequency tones, f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F. In the given symbol duration 40, a particular transmitter operating within a multiple access communication system is allocated M frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), which is a subset of, f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F (the total number of frequency tones) in order to transmit the signal. As part of this implementation, the number of tones allocated to a particular transmitter is equal to the number of symbols to be transmitted by that transmitter. Later in FIG. 8A, the number of allocated tones can be greater than the number of symbols to be transmitted. The remaining frequency tones can be used by other transmitters within the communication system. This technique allows OFDM communication system 10 to operate as a multiple access communication system.



The complex data symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are first mapped to t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M, respectively, where t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M are M prescribed time instants within the time domain symbol duration 40. The mapping operation generates a discrete signal of mapped symbols. It should be noted that the number of prescribed time instants is equal to the number of symbols M to be transmitted. As described above, the symbol mapping occurs in the time domain. Continuous interpolation functions 42 are then applied to the discrete signal of mapped symbols 16 to generate a continuous function CF(t) for t in the time interval from 0 to T.



The interpolation functions 42 are constructed such that the values of the continuous function CF(t) at time instants t.sub.1, t.sub.2, t.sub.3, . . . , t.sub.M are respectively equal to C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M and the frequency response of the continuous function CF(t) contains only sinusoids at the allocated tones. Therefore, CF(t) is constructed as



.function..times..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function- ..times. ##EQU00001## where J= {square root over (-1)} and coefficients A.sub.k are given by



e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..tim- es..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..tim- es.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..function. ##EQU00002## Thus, each coefficient A.sub.k is generated by multiplying a matrix of predetermined sinusoids with the single column of data symbols C.sub.1, C.sub.2, C.sub.3, . . . , C.sub.M 16.



FIG. 3B shows the frequency response of the continuous function CF(t). More specifically, FIG. 3B shows that the frequency response of the continuous function is non-zero only at the allocated frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), and is zero at all other frequency tones.



The output of the DSP 26 is a vector of digital signal samples S 22, which are the samples of the continuous function CF(t) at discrete time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N, T(N-1)/N, that is, S.sub.1=CF(0), S.sub.2=CF(T/N), S.sub.3=CF(2T/N), . . . , S.sub.N=CF(T(N-1)/N), where N is the number of discrete time instants in the vector of digital signal samples 22. In a general form, t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M may not necessarily be equal to any of the time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N T(N-1)/N. Therefore, while the digital signal samples S 22 may occur at the time instants, t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M, the OFDM communication system 10 does not require that the time instants 0, T/N, 2T/N . . . , T(N-1)/N be equal to t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



In another implementation of OFDM communication system 10, the digital signal samples S 22 may be generated by the DSP 26 by directly multiplying a matrix of precomputed sinusoidal waveforms Z, operating as discrete interpolation functions, with the discrete signal of mapped symbols C in order to satisfy the transformation function S=ZC according to the following:



.times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..- times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times.- .function..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.- .times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.- e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..time- s..times..function..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..functio- n..times..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e- .times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times- ..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times- ..function..times. ##EQU00003## where C represents the symbol vector, and the matrix Z represents the product of the two matrices in the second line of the above equation. Each column (i) of matrix Z represents the interpolation function 42 of a corresponding symbol C.sub.i to generate the digital signal samples S 22. As such, the matrix Z can be pre-computed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23 of the interpolation circuit 20 (FIG. 2B). The interpolation circuit 20 then applies the discrete interpolation functions 42 defined by the matrix Z to the discrete signal of mapped complex symbols C 16 in order to satisfy the criteria of S=ZC and to generate the vector of digital signal samples 22.



The purpose of constructing the signal in the time domain is to directly map the symbols 16, which have a desirable low peak-to-average ratio property, to the prescribed time instants within the symbol duration 40. Appropriate interpolation functions 42 are selected to obtain the continuous function CF(t) and the digital signal samples 22 such that the desirable low peak-to-average ratio property of the symbols 16 is substantially preserved for the continuous function and for the digital signal samples 22. The peak-to-average ratio property of the resulting (interpolated) continuous function CF(t) and the digital signal samples 22 is dependent upon the interpolation functions 42, the choice of allocated frequency tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) from the set of tones, and the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



Referring to FIG. 4A, one implementation of the OFDM communication system 10 allocates tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) to the transmitter associated with the communication system that are a subset of contiguous tones in the tone set f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F. Therefore, f.sub.i(k)=f.sub.0+(k-1).DELTA., for k=1, . . . , M, where M is the number of symbols. If the OFDM communication system 10 is a multiple access system, each transmitter associated with the communication system is allocated a non-overlapping subset of frequency tones. For purposes of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



Complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are mapped in the time domain to the following time instants t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M, for k=1, . . . , M. As part of this implementation, the prescribed time instants t.sub.i, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over the entire OFDM symbol duration 40 as shown in the first time domain graph of FIG. 4A. Given the choice of the allocated frequency tones and prescribed time instants, the matrix Z, which is used to generate the digital signal samples S as discussed in FIGS. 3A-3B, can be simplified to



.function.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..time- s..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..fun- ction..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..tim- es..function.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..ti- mes..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..f- unction..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times. ##EQU00004##



The second time domain graph of FIG. 4A shows the resulting digital signal sample vector S 22 after the interpolation circuit 20 applies the interpolation functions 42 defined by the matrix Z to the complex symbols 16 according to the expression S=ZC. As part of this implementation, the sampling module 25 is not generally used as the digital signal sample vector S 22 is directly generated from the discrete signal of mapped symbols using the transformation function S=ZC.



Turning to FIG. 4B, a digital processing system 50 provides another technique for obtaining the vector of digital signal samples S. A DFT circuit 52 receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols C.sub.i and calculates the frequency responses A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M, at tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT). The vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 54 output by the DFT circuit 52 is then expanded to a new vector of length N (the total number of time instants in the discrete signal vector S) by zero insertion at block 56. More specifically, this process involves putting the k.sup.th symbol A.sub.k to the i(k).sup.th element of the new vector, for k=1, . . . , M, where f.sub.i(k) is the k.sup.th tone allocated to the transmitter, and inserting zeros in all the remaining elements. Finally, an IDFT circuit 58 performs an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform on the resulting vector (after zero insertion) to obtain the digital signal sample vector S. The collective procedure of DFT, zero insertion and IDFT is one way of implementing the discrete interpolation functions.



Turning to FIG. 4C, another technique for obtaining the digital signal samples S is shown. For simplicity of description, it is assumed that the allocated contiguous tones f.sub.i(1), .sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) are centered at frequency 0. The construction for the other cases where the allocated tones are not centered at frequency 0 can be similarly obtained. As with FIG. 4A, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over the entire OFDM symbol duration 40.



The complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped in the time domain to time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M respectively. Next, the mapped symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated to an expanded set of prescribed time instants, which is a superset of t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M and consists of an infinite number of equally-spaced time instants covering the time interval from -.infin. to +.infin.. This technique creates an infinite series of mapped symbols C. The continuous function CF(t) is then constructed by interpolating the infinite series of mapped symbols using a sinc interpolation function 60. Mathematically, the above steps construct the continuous function CF(t) as



.function..times..times..times..infin..infin..times..times..times..times.- .function. ##EQU00005## where sinc(a,b)=sin(.pi.a/b)/(.pi.a/b). The sinc interpolation function 60 can also be precomputed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23. As discussed in FIG. 3A the digital signal samples S 22 are the samples of the continuous function CF(t) at time instants 0, T/N, . . . , T(N-1)/N. In FIGS. 4A-4C, if N is a multiple of M, then S.sub.1+(k-1)N/M=C.sub.k, for k=1, . . . , M. It should be noted that the continuous function CF(t) only applies to the symbol duration 40 from 0 to T. The use of time interval from -.infin. to +.infin. is solely for the purpose of mathematically constructing CF(t). The discrete interpolation functions, which combine the continuous interpolation functions and the sampling function, can be derived easily from the above description.



For comparison purposes, FIG. 4D illustrates the resulting peak-to-average ratio for a digital signal sample vector S 62 and its associated transmitted OFDM signal 64 produced by symbols 16 where the signal is constructed in the frequency domain. As described above, this known technique of mapping the symbols 16 in the frequency domain produces a large signal variation in the transmitted OFDM signal 64 and results in a large peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 4E illustrates the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 66 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 68. As will be appreciated by comparing FIGS. 4D and 4E, mapping the constellation of complex symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 68 having a significantly reduced peak-to-average ratio.



FIG. 5A shows a second implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, and serves to further generalize the system shown in FIGS. 4A-4C. As part of OFDM system 10, tones, f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), allocated to the transmitter associated with the communication system, are a subset of equally-spaced tones in the tone set f.sub.1, f.sub.2, . . . , f.sub.F. Therefore, f.sub.i(k)=f.sub.0+(k-1)L.DELTA., for k=1, . . . , M, and L is a positive integer number representing the spacing between two adjacent allocated frequency tones. When L=1, this implementation is equivalent to the implementation technique described in FIGS. 4A-4C. For the sake of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



In this case where the allocated tones are equally-spaced tones, the constructed continuous function CF(t) is identical in each of the L time intervals, [0,T/L), [T/L,2T/L), . . . , and [(L-1)T/L, T/L). As part of this technique, symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M 16 are mapped to the following time instants t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M/L, for k=1, . . . , M. In this implementation, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants uniformly distributed over a fraction (1/L) of the symbol duration 70. As a comparison, in the case of allocated contiguous tones (FIG. 4A), the prescribed time instants are equally-spaced and distributed over the entire symbol duration, as discussed with respect to FIG. 4A.



The procedure for obtaining the digital signal samples S 22 described in FIG. 4A can also be applied with respect to FIG. 5A. More specifically, the digital signal sample vector S is the product of matrix Z (defining the discrete interpolation functions) and the symbol vector C. Given the choice of the allocated frequency tones and prescribed time instants, the matrix Z, which is used to generate the digital signal samples 22 from the discrete signal of mapped symbols, can be simplified to the same formula as in FIG. 4A with the only change in the definition of f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M) and t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M.



In FIG. 5B, the procedure of obtaining the digital signal sample vector S 22 described in FIG. 4B can also be applied to the case of allocated frequency tones that are equally spaced tones. More specifically, a digital processing system 100 provides another technique for obtaining the vector of digital signal samples S. A DFT circuit 102 receives a discrete signal of complex data symbols C.sub.i and calculates the frequency responses, A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M at tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M), through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT). The vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 104 output by the DFT circuit 102 is then expanded to a new vector of length N (the total number of time instants in the digital signal sample vector S) by zero insertion at block 106. More specifically, this process involves putting the k.sup.th symbol A.sub.k to the i(k)th element of the new vector, for k=1, . . . , M, where f.sub.i(k) is the k.sup.th tone allocated to the transmitter, and inserting zeros in all the remaining elements. Finally, an IDFT circuit 108 performs an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform on the resulting vector (after zero insertion) to obtain the time domain digital signal sample vector S. The collective procedure of DFT, zero insertion and IDFT is one way of implementing the discrete interpolation functions.



FIG. 5C is the counterpart of FIG. 4C, where symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped to t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M respectively over a fraction (1/L) of the symbol duration 70. The symbol mapping is also performed in the time domain. Next the mapped symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated to an expanded set of prescribed time instants from -.infin. to +.infin. which creates an infinite series of symbols. The continuous function CF(t) is then constructed by interpolating the infinite series of mapped symbols with a sinc interpolation function 72. Thus, the continuous function CF(t) includes the digital signal samples mapped to the prescribed time instants as well as digital sample points between the prescribed time instants. Mathematically, the above steps construct the continuous function as



.function..times..times..times..infin..infin..times..times..times..times.- .function..times..times. ##EQU00006## With continued reference to FIG. 5C, each sinc interpolation function 72 is narrower and therefore decays faster than the sinc interpolation function 60 shown in FIG. 4C. The sinc interpolation function 72 can also be precomputed and stored in the interpolation function memory 23 for use by the interpolation function module 21. The digital sample vector S 22 can be obtained in the same technique shown in FIG. 4C. In FIGS. 5A and 5C, if N is a multiple of ML, then S.sub.1+(k-1)N/M/L+(j-1)N/L=C.sub.k, for k=1, . . . , M, and j=1, . . . , L. The discrete interpolation functions, which combine the continuous interpolation functions and the sampling function, can be derived easily from the above description.



FIG. 5D illustrates the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 74 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 76. As will be appreciated by comparing FIGS. 4D and 5D, mapping the constellation of complex symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 76 having a significantly lower peak-to-average ratio.



Referring now to FIG. 6, a .pi./4 symbol rotation technique is used to further reduce the peak-to-average ratio of the transmitted OFDM signal. At an OFDM symbol duration, if symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M of the constellation are to be transmitted, symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M are mapped to another block of complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M, where each odd number symbol remains unchanged and each even number symbol is phase rotated by .pi./4. For example, if symbols B.sub.1, . . . , B.sub.M belong to a QPSK constellation {0, .pi./2, .pi., .pi.3/2{, the odd number symbols C.sub.k still belong to the same QPSK constellation, while after being phase rotated the even number symbols C.sub.k belong to another QPSK constellation {.pi./4, .pi.3/4, .pi.5/4, .pi.7/4}. Symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are then used to construct the digital signal samples 22 in the time domain as described above with respect to FIGS. 3A-5C.



With reference to FIG. 7, another technique for reducing the peak-to-average ratio is shown, which introduces a cyclic offset of the real and imaginary signal components. This technique involves a first step of offsetting the imaginary components of the digital signal samples S 22, which have been generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C, by an integer number of samples. If necessary, the technique then involves a second step of adjusting the timing by a fraction of a sample period between the real and the imaginary signal components in the transmit path.



At an OFDM symbol duration, if the digital signal samples S.sub.1, S.sub.2, . . . , S.sub.N have been obtained using the method as described in FIGS. 3A-5C, the digital signal sample vector S is then mapped to another vector S' as follows. The real component of digital signal sample S'.sub.k is equal to that of digital signal sample S.sub.k. The imaginary component of digital signal sample S'.sub.k is equal to that of digital signal sample S.sub.j where index j=(k+d-1)mod N+1, for k=1, . . . , N, with mod representing a module operation. The parameter d is an integer representing the cyclic offset, in terms of number of samples, between the real and imaginary components.



In one implementation, the value of d is determined by



.times. ##EQU00007## where L is discussed in FIG. 5A. In one aspect of this technique, d is chosen to be close to



.times. ##EQU00008## For example, d can be the integer closest to



.times. ##EQU00009## the largest integer not greater than



.times. ##EQU00010## or the smallest integer not smaller than



.times. ##EQU00011## In one example, d is chosen to be the largest integer not greater than



.times. ##EQU00012## This example can be easily extended for other choices of d.



The digital signal sample vector S' is then passed to the cyclic prefix prepender circuit 24, as shown in FIG. 1. Therefore, the operation of half symbol cyclic shifting is carried out before the operation of prepending the cyclic prefix, such as that performed by the cyclic prefix circuit 24 of FIG. 1.



Not specifically shown in FIG. 7, when or after the sample vector S' and the cyclic prefix are outputted to the digital to analog converter 28, the imaginary components are further delayed by an amount of number



.times..times. ##EQU00013## which is a fraction of a sample period T/N.



As a variation of the technique shown in FIG. 7 (not specifically shown), another technique for achieving a similar result can be used to eliminate the second step of adjusting timing by a fraction of a sample period between the real and the imaginary signal components in the transmit path. As part of this technique, the real and the imaginary components of the desired digital signal samples S 22 are generated separately as described by the following.



A first series of digital signal samples 22 are generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C. The real components of the desired digital signal samples 22 are equal to those of the first series of samples. A second series of digital signal samples 22 are generated using the technique of FIGS. 3A-5C except for the following changes. The imaginary components of the desired digital signal samples are equal to those of the second series of samples. In the general method described in FIGS. 3, 4A, and 5A, the matrix



e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..tim- es..times..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..tim- es..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..times..times. ##EQU00014## is changed to



e.times..times..pi..times..times..function..function..times.e.times..time- s..pi..times..times..function..function..times.e.times..times..pi..times..- times..function..function..times..times.e.times..times..pi..times..times..- function..function..times..times. ##EQU00015##



In the block diagram method described with regard to FIG. 4B, an additional operation is required after zero insertion (block 56) and before N-point IDFT (block 58), where each element k in the expanded length N vector is phase rotated by



e.times..times..pi..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00016##



Referring to FIGS. 8A-8D, another technique for further reducing the peak-to-average ratio is implemented by allocating more frequency tones than the number of complex symbols to be transmitted in a symbol duration 40. In FIGS. 3-7, the number of tones allocated to the transmitter associated with the communication system is equal to the number of symbols to be transmitted in a given OFDM symbol duration. Compared with the other techniques described with respect to the previous figures, the technique of FIGS. 8A-8D requires additional overhead of bandwidth to transmit the same number of complex symbols.



For example, if the communication system 10 is allocated M+M.sub.ex contiguous frequency tones, f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . f.sub.i(M+Mex), and M symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M of the constellation are to be transmitted at an OFDM symbol duration, from the comparison of FIGS. 4A and 5A, the case of allocated contiguous tones can be easily extended to the case of allocated equally-spaced tones. As part of this implementation of the OFDM communication system 10, M.sub.ex is a positive number representing the number of excess tones to be used and is assumed to be an even number. Therefore, the allocated tone



.function..times..DELTA. ##EQU00017## for k=1, . . . , M+M.sub.ex. For purposes of description, let f.sub.0=0. The construction for the other cases where f.sub.0.noteq.0 can be similarly obtained.



As with the technique described with respect to FIG. 4A, the prescribed time instants are t.sub.k=(k-1)T/M, for k=1, . . . , M, that is, the prescribed time instants t.sub.1, . . . , t.sub.M are equally-spaced time instants in the symbol duration 40.



As part of this technique shown in FIG. 8A, P(f) is a smooth windowing function 90 in the frequency domain, which is non-zero only over interval [f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(M+Mex)]. In addition, P(f) 90 also satisfies the Nyquist zero intersymbol interference criterion, i.e.,



.infin..infin..times..times..DELTA. ##EQU00018## for any frequency f, where .DELTA. is the spacing between adjacent tones.



FIG. 8B shows the block diagram of the technique. As described above, a symbol-to-symbol mapping is optionally performed to generate a discrete signal of mapped complex symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M, 16. The frequency responses A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M 84 are calculated through an M-point discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of the complex symbols 16 at block 82. At block 86, vector [A.sub.1, . . . , A.sub.M] 84 is cyclically expanded to a new vector A' of length N and windowed with a windowing function 90 as follows: A'.sub.k=A.sub.g(k)*P((k-1).DELTA.+f.sub.1) where index g(k)=mod(k-i(1)-M.sub.ex/2, M)+1, for k=1, . . . , N.



At block 88, the digital signal sample vector S is obtained by taking an N-point inverse discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) of the new vector A'. Finally, the cyclic prefix is added by cyclic prefix circuit 24 as described above with regard to FIG. 1.



To provide additional insight to the above signal construction technique, assume that the allocated tones f.sub.i(1), f.sub.i(2), . . . , f.sub.i(M+Mex) are centered at frequency 0. In FIG. 8C (as with FIG. 4C), symbols C.sub.1, . . . , C.sub.M are first mapped to equally-spaced time instants in the symbol duration 40, and are then leftwards and rightwards shifted and replicated from -.infin. to +.infin.. What is different from FIG. 4C is that a different interpolation function 92, which is determined by the windowing function 90, is used to generate the continuous function, CF(t)=.SIGMA..sub.i=1.sup.MC.sub.i.SIGMA..sub.k=-.infin..sup..infin.p(t-t- .sub.ikT) where p(t) 92 is the time domain response of P(t) 90. As with FIG. 4C, the digital signal samples are obtained by letting t=0, T/N, . . . , T(N-1)/N.



In one exemplary aspect of this technique, if a raised cosine windowing function is used, i.e.,



.function.<.beta..times..times..times..times..function..pi..beta..time- s..beta..times..times..beta..times..times..ltoreq..ltoreq..beta..times..ti- mes.>.beta..times..times. ##EQU00019## where .beta.=(M.sub.ex+2)/M represents the percentage of excess tone overhead, then, the interpolation function p(t) 92 is given by



.function..function..pi..times..times..pi..times..times..times..function.- .pi..beta..times..times..times..beta..times..times. ##EQU00020## As .beta. increases, the interpolation function p(t) 92 decays faster, thereby reducing the probability of having large peak at samples between t.sub.i.



FIG. 8D shows the resulting small signal variation and low peak-to-average ratio of the digital signal sample vector S 94 associated with the transmitted OFDM signal 96. As will be appreciated, mapping the constellation symbols 16 in the time domain produces an OFDM signal 96 having a significantly lower peak-to-average signal ratio.



A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

PatentNumber=7924841,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The systems and methods of this invention generally relate to communication systems. In particular, the systems and methods of this invention relate to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) communication systems, methods and protocols.



2. Description of Related Art



The IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards for wireless LANs, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, herein after referred to as 803.11a/g, specify wireless local area network communication systems in the 5 GHz and 2.4 GHz bands. These standards specify the use of OFDM as the modulation method used for communication. OFDM is a multicarrier modulation scheme that performs well in wireless communication channels. The 802.11a/g standards provide data rates of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbps. Different data rates are achieved by transmitting different, but constant, numbers of bits on all carriers in the multicarrier system and by operating at different coding rates. Table 1 below illustrates the coding rate and bits per subcarrier for each data rate for an exemplary 802.11a/g transceiver.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 DATARATE Bits per Subcarrier (Mbps) Coding Rate (R) (N_BPSC) 6 1/2 1 9 3/4 1 12 1/2 2 18 3/4 2 24 1/2 4 36 3/4 4 48 2/3 6 54 3/4 6



In order to determine the appropriate transmission data rate, the 802.11a/g transmitter uses a trial and error method of transmitting at various data rates, starting with, for example, the highest or last successful transmission rate, and waits for a positive acknowledgement indication from the receiver that the packet was successfully received. This simple positive acknowledgment indication method is used to optimize communications in conventional 802.11a based wireless systems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and methods of this invention use messages transmitted between a receiver and a transmitter to maximize the communication data rate. In particular, and in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a multicarrier modulation system uses messages that are sent from the receiver to the transmitter to exchange optimized communication parameters. The transmitter then stores these communication parameters and when transmitting to that particular receiver, the transmitter utilizes the stored parameters in an effort to maximize the data rate to that receiver. Likewise, when the receiver receives packets from that particular transmitter, the receiver can utilize the stored communication parameters for reception.



Accordingly, aspects of the invention relate to multicarrier modulation communication systems.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communication systems that transmit messages between transceivers.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to transmitting messages between a plurality of transceivers in an effort to optimize a data communication rate.



Further aspects of the invention relate to exchanging optimized communication parameters between a plurality of receivers in a multicarrier modulation system.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to exchanging communication parameters between a plurality of transceivers in a wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communications network to regulate the data rate between the transceivers.



These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or apparent from, the following detailed description of the embodiments.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The embodiments of the invention will be described in detailed, with reference to the following figures, wherein:



FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram illustrating an exemplary communication system according to this invention;



FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the components of a first and a second transceiver according to this invention;



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary communication method according to this invention;



FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary extended signal field according to this invention;



FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary communication system according to this invention; and



FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary transceiver in accordance with the second exemplary embodiment of this invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and the methods of this invention will be described in relation to a multicarrier modulation communication system. However, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention, the following description omits well-known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized. For the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein. For example, the systems and methods of this invention can generally be applied to any type of communications system including wired communication systems, wireless communication systems, such as wireless LANs, power line communication systems, wired or wireless telephone line communication systems, or any combination thereof.



Furthermore, while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the communication system collocated, it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network and/or the Internet, or within a dedicated multicarrier modulation system. Thus, it should be appreciated that the components of the communication system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network. It will be appreciated from the following description, and for reasons of computational efficiency, that the components of the communications system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system.



Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links, or any combination thereof, or any other known or later developed element(s) that is capable of supplying and/or communicating information to and from the connected elements. Additionally, the term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element.



Additionally, while this invention will be described in the relation to multicarrier modulation systems, the systems and methods of this invention can be applied to any communication system or transport protocol for transmitting information.



FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary communication system 1. Communication system 1 comprises one or more stations 10 and an access point (AP) 20. This exemplary embodiment illustrates a wireless LAN where a plurality of stations 10 communication with the access point 20. In particular, in its exemplary wireless LAN, multiple stations 10 share a common communication medium. One possible configuration includes an access point 20 that is used to communicate between the stations 10 (BSS). The access point 20 provides the local relay functionality between the stations 10 and to, for example, other wired and/or wireless networks (not shown). Therefore, when station 1 communicates with station 2, the communication, e.g., a packet, is sent from station 1 to the access point 20, and then from the access point 20 to station 2. For this reason, in most cases a station 10 is only transmitting packets to the access point 20 and receiving packets from the access point 20. The access point 20 on the other hand, must communicate with all the stations 10 in the network.



Another possible configuration does not rely on an access point 20, but instead communications take place directly between the stations 10 (IBSS) in the network illustrated by the dashed lines in FIG. 1. In this embodiment, where communications occur directly between the stations 10, there are no relay functions served by the access point 20.



In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the wireless network relies on communicating parameters between a plurality of transceivers and in particular from a receiver to a transmitter. These parameters are stored at the transmitter and are used for subsequent transmission of packets to the receiver the parameters were received from. Thus, the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well whether the network is configured to have an access point 20, or not, as each station, including the access point, if used, maintains tables comprising the communication parameters.



Several different types of communication parameters can be sent from the receiver to the transmitter to optimize communication to, for example, increase or decrease the data rate. In general, any parameter that can modify performance can be included in the message. The following examples are the more common types of communication parameters that can be exchanged between the receiver and the transmitter.



The Bit Allocation Table (BAT)--the bit allocation table in multicarrier modulation systems specify the number of bits modulated on each carrier, which are also referred to as subchannels, subcarriers, tones or bins, in a multicarrier modulation system. The 802.11a/g transceivers use the same number of bits on all subchannels, which is the simplest type of bit allocation table. Since wireless communications experience multipath, the communications channel is not flat in frequency, which means that different subcarriers will have different signal to noise ratios (SNRs). Therefore, in order to achieve a constant bit error rate (BER) on all carriers, a bit allocation table is used so that carriers with a higher SNR modulate more bits than carriers with a lower SNR. This process is often referred to as "bit loading." Bit loading and the use of a bit allocation table has been used in ADSL multicarrier communication systems for years. For example, ITU standards G.992.1 and G.992.2, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are international ADSL standards that specify communication using bit loading and bit allocation tables. Bit loading also enables using constellation sizes much higher than 64 QAM (6 bit) which is the maximum constellation size of standard 802.11a/g systems. Bit loading constellations that modulate up to 15 bits, or more, can be used, if supported by the channel, thereby achieving significant data rate improvements.



Coded modulation parameters--systems that use coded modulation techniques, such as trellis coded modulation and turbo coded modulation, achieve much higher coding advantages than systems that do not combine modulation and forward error correction encoding. However, coded modulation schemes do not encode all information bits and therefore coded modulation must be combined with bit loading in multipath channels in order to achieve the coding gain benefits.



Variable cyclic prefix length--the cyclic prefix (CP) is used in multicarrier systems to combat multipath. In general, as long as the impulse response of the channel is less than the CP length, there will be no inter-symbol interference (ISI) or inter-channel (ICI) interference due to the channel multipath. However, since the CP is a redundant cyclic extension added to every communication symbol, the CP also results in a data rate loss. The 802.11a/g standards use a fixed CP with a length of 0.8 microseconds, which is 20% of the symbol length. Therefore, the addition of the CP results in a 20% data rate reduction. This is a good tradeoff if the channel is approximately the same length as a CP. However, if the channel is much shorter, e.g., only 0.1 microseconds, then it makes sense to decrease the CP length to 0.1 microseconds in order to get a 19% data rate improvement. Likewise, if the channel is much longer than 0.8 microseconds, the CP should be extended to match the length of the channel because significant levels of ISI and ICI will probably greatly reduce the achievable data rate.



Variable pilot tone allocation--standard 802.11a/g receivers use four fixed pilot tones that are spread across the transmission frequency band. This is necessary in 802.11a/g systems since the transmitter does not know which portions of the frequency bands are in deep nulls due to multipath. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the receiver can communicate to the transmitter which carrier should be used for pilot tones. Since the receiver can determine which carriers have a high SNR, the receiver can instruct the transmitter to place pilot tones on those high SNR carriers. In fact, in many cases, a single high SNR carrier is sufficient to be used for all timing recovery requirements thereby allowing the system to transmit data on the three carriers that the 802.11a/g systems use for pilot tones. This also provides a data rate increase when compared to standard 802.11a/g systems.



Alternatively, the communication system may not have any carriers dedicated as pilot tones, i.e., all carriers that are modulated are modulated with information bits. In this case, a carrier that carries information bits may be used to perform "decision-directed" timing recovery algorithms. For example, a carrier that is used for this type of decision-directed algorithm will often carry fewer bits than actually possible at the specified BER in order to provide a reference signal with a high SNR.



Fine gains per carrier--Fine gains are used in ADSL standards such as G.992.1 to equalize the BER across all the carriers when bit loading is used. Fine gains are small adjustments in the transmit power level that enable a subchannel to achieve the BER required by the system based on the specific measure of SNR.



Throughout the following discussion, exemplary embodiments of this invention will be directed toward the bit allocation tables (BATs) as the primary optimized communication parameter that is being exchanged between the stations. This is done because the use of BATs is one of the most effective ways to achieve optimized communication and to modify data rates. However, it is to be appreciated that other communication parameters including, but not limited to, fine gains, trellis coded modulation, pilot tone location, variable cyclic prefix length, and the like, can also be exchanged, with or without BATs, between stations to realize a change in data rate.



To implement a change in data rates, a message containing the communication parameters is sent from a receiver to a transmitter. These communication parameters can be communicated in a plurality of ways. For example, the communication parameters can be sent to the transmitter as part of a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, after receiving the positive acknowledgment packet, the transmitter would use the communication parameters contained in the positive acknowledgment packet for the transmission of subsequent packets. The communication parameters could also be sent, for example, as part of a management or data frame that is intended to communicate information between the transceivers. For example, the communication parameters could be sent as part of an extended header field of any packet sent between the transceivers.



The exemplary embodiment of the protocol used for exchanging communication parameters in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 1 and 2. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary network 1, such as a wireless network. The network 1 comprises a plurality of stations 10 interconnected by a plurality of links and an access point 20. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the components associated with a first and a second transceiver, e.g., the stations 10 or the access point 20. In particular, the first transceiver 100 comprises a message determination module 110, a communication parameter determination module 120, a packet determination module 130, a transmitter 140, a receiver 150, a memory 160, and a controller 170, all connected by a link (not shown). The second transceiver 200 comprises a message determination module 210, a communication parameter determination module 220, a packet determination module 230, a transmitter 240, a receiver 250, a memory 260, and a controller 270, all connected by a link (not shown).



For ease of illustration the exemplary method used for the high rate OFDM communication systems will be discussed in relation to a first transceiver sending packets to a second transceiver. For example, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver the access point 20. Alternatively, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver, station 1, or the like. The relevant portion of the protocol commences with the first transceiver sending a packet at one of a highest possible data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps for 802.11a/g, at the data rate of the last successful transmission, or at a known data rate.



Specifically, the packet determination module 130, in cooperation with the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170 coordinate the transmission of this first packet, i.e., before any optimized communication parameters are exchanged, and transmit the packet using standard size fixed communication parameter settings such as those specified in IEEE 802.11a/g, e.g., fixed six bits per tone on all carriers.



Next, if the second transceiver's receiver 250 successfully receives the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet again with the cooperation of the packet determination modulation 230, the transmitter 240, the memory 260 and the controller 270. This positive acknowledgment packet also comprises optimized communication parameters determined by the communication parameter determination module 220 to be used by the second transceiver 200 for subsequent reception of packets from the first transceiver 100. For example, the positive acknowledgment packet may contain a BAT with different bits per subcarrier based on, for example, the channel characteristics as measured by the second transceiver 200 and determined by the communication parameter determination module 220. Alternatively, or in addition, this acknowledgment packet may also indicate any of the optimized transmission parameters described above, e.g., which one or more carriers should be used as pilot tones as discussed above.



If the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 does not return to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, the first transceiver 100, again in cooperation with the packet determination module 130, the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170, sends a packet at the next highest or another known standard data rate.



If the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment packet, the first transceiver 100, in cooperation with memory 160 stores the optimized communication parameters. The first transceiver 100 then uses the stored communication parameters for transmission of subsequent packets to the second transceiver 200. The use of the optimized communication parameters is indicated in the header field of the packet sent from the first transceiver 100 to the second transceiver 200. For example, the message determination module 110 modifies the header field to indicate which optimized communication parameters are being used.



The second transceiver's receiver 250 receives the packet from the first transceiver 100 and determines which communication parameters were used based on the information in the data field of the packet. This is accomplished by, for example, decoding the header field of the packet that indicates that optimized communication parameters are being used. The packet can then be demodulated and decoded based on the information contained in the data field in association with the message determination/decoded module 210 using the optimized communication parameters that were sent from the second transceiver to the first transceiver in the previous positive acknowledgement packet.



After the second transceiver 200 receives from the first transceiver 100 the packet which has the header field specifying which optimize communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 sends a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. This positive acknowledgment may contain the same parameters as used for the last successful received packet as an indication to the second transceiver 200 to continue transmitting with the stored optimized communication parameters. Equivalently, the positive acknowledgment may be just a basic acknowledgment packet, as in conventional 802.11a/g systems, to indicate that the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver and communication should continue using the same optimized communication parameters. In the event that optimized communication parameters accompany every positive acknowledgement during an extended communication session, this mechanism effectively tracks



Alternatively, the second transceiver 200 may send a new, second set of optimized communication parameters in the acknowledgment message. These new parameters could, for example, request a change in data rate, such as a higher data rate. In this case, the first transceiver 100 could start using the second set of optimized communication parameters for transmission after receiving the acknowledgment packet.



In the case where the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet transmitted by the first transceiver 100 that has the modified header field specifying which communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 will not send a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. In this case, the first transceiver 100 would determine that the optimized communication parameters are no longer valid and will start the protocol all over again by going back to the first step were the first transceiver 100 will commence communication at a known data rate, such as the highest data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps in 802.11a/g systems, using the fixed/standard communication parameters.



In the case were the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment from the second transceiver 200 after transmitting a packet using the first set of optimized parameters, and this positive acknowledgment contains a new, second set of optimized parameters, these new parameters should be used for subsequent transmission of packets. However, if the second transceiver 200 does not receive a positive acknowledgment packet after sending a packet using the second set of optimize parameters, then the second transceiver 200 reverts back to the first step of the protocol were a packet is sent at a known e.g., next highest data. However, in this case, the first transceiver may start by transmitting using the first set of optimized communication parameters or by transmitting at a data rate using a fixed/standard communication parameter, e.g., 54 Mbps in the 802.11a/g standard.



Alternatively, or further in addition, the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 may periodically send "reference" or "training" packets that can be used by the receiver portion of the transceiver in conjunction with the communication parameter determination module to determine the optimized transmission parameters. For example, these training packets can be packets that contain signals that are known to the transceivers in advance. For example, the training packets can be non-information carrying packets that are sent during times when there is no data to be sent between the stations and the network. Since these packets are predefined and known to the receiver prior to reception, the receivers can use them to accurately measure the effects of the channel, such as the multipath profile, the SNR per carrier, or the like. These training packets can also be used to train receiver equalizers that are used to equalize, for example, the wireless channel and/or receiver filters and/or transmitter filters.



In conventional wireless LAN systems, every packet contains a header field that indicates the data rate used for transmitting the data field of the packet. The header field is transmitted using a fixed modulation/encoding scheme, such as in the 802.11a/g standard, and therefore can be demodulated by all stations. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header field will also indicate whether optimized communication parameters were used for transmitting the data field in the packet. This could be done in several ways. For example, the header field could contain the indication of the data rate as in 802.11a/g. Alternatively, the header field could contain a bit field that indicates whether the optimized communication parameters are to be used. This bit field could be a single bit that indicates either to use the last exchanged optimized communication parameters, or one of the standard fixed communication parameters. Alternatively, the bit field could be a plurality of bits indicating one of a plurality of sets of optimized communication parameters.



In the example of a network with a access point 20, each station transmitter would store optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. These optimized parameters would be generated by the access point 20 receiver and sent to the station(s) as described above. Obviously, since each station 10 is in a different location, and could possibly move, each station transmitter would probably have different optimized parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. The access point 20 must also store these optimized parameters to be used by the access point 20 receiver when receiving packets from the various stations 10. For each station 10, the access point 20 may have a different set of optimize parameters. Since the access point 20 receives packets from all stations, the access point 20 must be able to determine the parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. The access point 20 can use the packet header to determine whether the optimized parameters have been used, but since the access point 20 does not know which station actually sent the packet, the access point 20 may not be able to determine the correct parameters based on the header alone.



Accordingly, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header also includes a bit field that indicates which station sent the packet. In this case, the access point 20 would use that information to determine which set of parameters should be used. Alternatively, the access point 20 may use other measures to determine which station sent the packet. For example, the access point 20 could use the power of the received signal, the channel estimate based on frequency equalizer taps, carrier offset values, or the like.



In the example of a network, such as a wireless LAN, with an access point 20, the access point transmitter would store the optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to a specific station 10. These optimized communication parameters would be generated by the station receiver and sent to the access point 20 as described above. Obviously, since each station is in a different location, the access point 20 could have a plurality of sets of different optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the different stations 10. Each station 10 would then also store the optimize communication parameters corresponding to that station to be used by the station receiver when receiving packets from the access point 20. Each station 10 should also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., SIGNAL field. Therefore, each station 10 uses the packet header to determine whether the optimized communication parameters have been used. Unlike the access point receiver, each station receiver is intended to receive packets only from the access point 20 and therefore a station 10 may be able to determine the communication parameters based on the header alone.



Since all stations will receive packets from the access point 20, each station must also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the preamble and the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. Obviously, if the packet is not intended for a particular station receiver, the receiver may use the incorrect optimized communication parameters to receive a packet. This is actually not a problem since the packet was not intended for that receiver in the first place. However, since the protocol requires transmitters to defer to communications already in progress, every station must be able to determine various protocol counters based on the packet duration. The header must provide a way to determine the packet duration even if use of the wrong communication parameters does not permit the receiver to correctly decode the message.



As discussed above, once the receiving transceiver determines the optimized transmission parameters, the receiving transceiver needs to send this information to the transmitting transceiver to be used for subsequent communication between the two devices. Furthermore, as discuss above, the optimized transmission information can be sent as part of an acknowledgment packet. Alternatively, or in addition, the optimized transmission parameters can be exchanged as part of a management frame or regular information carrying frame on a periodic or, for example, triggered basis. In either case, the optimized transmission parameters can be sent as part of an extended packet header field, also known as the SIGNAL field, or as part of the packet information field. In the case of an extended packet header field, the information is sent at a fixed rate and can be decoded by all systems in the network. For example, a bit in the packet header field can be used to indicate that a new set of optimized transmission parameters has been appended to an extended packet header field.



In the latter case, the information can be sent using optimized parameters for communication. Note that in this case the optimized transmission parameters that are used for transmitting the optimized transmission parameter information from the receiver to the transmitter are not the same. For example, assume that the receiver of the first transceiver 150 determines optimized transmission information for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The first transceiver's transmitter 140 sends a packet to the second transceiver's receiver 250 where the packet contains the optimized transmission parameters for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The packet that is sent from the first transceiver's transmitter 140 to the second transceiver's receiver 250 may be sent using a standard fixed rate, as is done in conventional 802.11a/g systems, or may be sent using optimized transmission parameters communicated between the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200. Obviously, the optimized transmission parameters used for transmission from the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 would have been exchanged earlier in the communications session.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating a general exemplary method of exchanging communication parameters according to this invention. Specifically, control begins in step S100 and continues to step S110. In step S110, a first transceiver (designated T1) determines and sends a packet that is at least one of a known, highest, last successful or changed rate to a second transceiver (designated T2). Next, in step S120, a determination is made whether the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver. If the packet was not successfully received, control jumps to step S130. Otherwise, control continues to step S140.



In step S130, the communication parameters specifying the data rate are incremented/decremented as appropriate. Control then continues back to step S110.



In step S140, the second transceiver returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment that may or may not comprise optimized communication parameters. If the positive acknowledgement contains optimized communication parameters, the second transceiver stores these parameters. Next, in step S150, the first transceiver receives the acknowledgment. Then, in step S160, the first transceiver stores the optimized communication parameters if the positive acknowledgment returned from the second transceiver contains communication parameters. Control then continues to step S170.



In step S170, the first transceiver determines a header field. Next, in step S180, the first transceiver commences communication using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S190, a determination is made whether the second transceiver received the packet. If the packet was received, control continues to step S200. Otherwise, control jumps to step S130.



In step S200, the second transceiver decodes the header field and determines the communication parameters that were used. Next, in step S210, the second transceiver demodulates and decodes the data field using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S220, the second transceiver determines the acknowledgment to return to the first transceiver. Control then continues to step S230.



In step S230, the second transceiver sends the acknowledgment to the first transceiver. This message may or may not contain optimized communication parameters. Control then continues to step S240 where the control sequence ends.



The basic concepts discussed above can also be extended to legacy systems. In the following discussion, stations that only implement the current 802.11a/g standard will be referred to as legacy stations. Stations that are enabled with the methods of this invention to provide high data rate communications with optimized communication parameters will be referred to as extended rate (ER) stations. The method and protocols that enable exchanging, transmitting and receiving using these optimized communication parameters are referred to as extended rate systems and protocols. In this exemplary embodiment, an extended rate station also supports the current 802.11a/g standard.



For example, FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary communication system 500 that comprises a plurality of extended rate stations 510, 520, one or more legacy stations 530 and, for example, an access point 540.



When operating in an environment with legacy stations 530 and extended rate stations 510, 520 there are two main interoperability requirements to ensure network stability. First, a legacy station 530 must be able to receive the ER packet header (SIGNAL field) and use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will guarantee that the legacy station 530 will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



Secondly, an extended rate station 510, 520 must be able to determine the transmission parameters e.g., the bit allocation table, based on an extended rate packet header if the packet is intended for that station. In addition, an extended rate station that was not intended to receive the packet must also use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will ensure that the extended rate station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



In an effort to ensure the two above requirements are met, FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary modified packet header using an extended signal field. In this illustrative 802.11a example, the SIGNAL field is extended. The first part of the extended SIGNAL field has a structure identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field header. The first symbol of the extended SIGNAL field is modulated according to the SIGNAL modulation encoding parameters as specified in IEEE 802.11a for the standard SIGNAL field, i.e., 6 Mbps BPSK, code rate=1/2. Therefore, a legacy station can correctly receive the signal field bits from the first part of the extended SIGNAL field.



The second part of the extended signal field in the next symbol contains the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) station identifiers. These extended signal field bits are also modulated using the 802.11a 6 Mbps, code rate=1/2 modulation method. In FIG. 4, these extended signal field bits are sent in the second symbol of the extended signal field header that corresponds to the data symbol number one in a standard 802.11a system.



Since there are both legacy and extended rate stations in the exemplary communication system 500 illustrated in FIG. 5, an extended rate station needs to be able to determine and identify when a received packet contains an extended signal field header, which is contained in two symbols, as opposed to a standard 802.11a header, which contained in only one symbol. This can be accomplished by setting a bit in the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field. This bit will be referred to as the ER-enable bit. As an example, the 802.11a reserved bit between the rate field and the length field can be used as the ER-enable bit. For example, when this reserved bit (R) is set to 1, this indicates that an extended rate header is being used. When the reserved bit (R) is set to 0, this indicates that a standard 802.11a header is being used.



Again with reference to FIG. 5, two ER stations 510 and 520 are illustrated along with a legacy station 530 and an extended rate access point 540. The various links in FIG. 5 represent, for example, the communication paths of an extended rate packet where the ER-enable bit (R) is flagged in the reserved bit R position and the TX/RX STA ID (Transmitter/Receiver Station Identifier) is present in the extended SIGNAL field.



The exemplary communications that occur between the various stations will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 5 and 6. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates the exemplary components that could be present in a station illustrated in FIG. 5. In particular, the station 600 comprises a message determination module 610, a communication parameter determination module 620, a packet determination module 630, an ER detection module 640, a station ID decoder/encoder 650, a receiver 660, a transmitter 670, a memory 680 and a controller 690. Many of the components illustrated in the station 600 are comparable to those seen in the first transceiver 100 and second transceiver 200. Accordingly, the functions of those components will not be re-discussed in association with this embodiment of the invention.



Communication path 1: Transmission of packets from the access point 540 to a ER capable station, such as ER station 510.



The access point 540 forwards to the ER station 510 a packet. The ER station 510 detects the ER-enable bit with the cooperation of the ER detection module 640 and determines that the packet is an ER packet.



Next, the station ID decoder/encoder 650 decodes the RX STA ID bits and the extended header field to determine if the received packet is intended for this particular station. The ER station 510 also decodes the TX STA ID in the extended rate header with the cooperation of the station ID decoder/encoder 650 and determines if this packet is coming from the access point 540. Based on this information, the receiving extended rate station 510 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving the packets from the access point 540. The extended rate station 510 uses the optimize parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., the data field, of the packet. Naturally, the RX station had sent these optimized communication parameters to the AP earlier in the session.



Communication Path 2: Another ER-capable station, e.g., station 520, accidentally receives a packet from the access point (AP) 540.



The station 520, in cooperation with the ER detection module 640, detects the ER-enable bit in the packet sent from the access point 540, and determines that the packet is an ER packet and, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field and determines that the received packet is not intended for this particular station. The station 520 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field, as discussed below.



Since the station 520 determines that the received packet is not intended for itself, the station 520 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when a packet is received, a station can detect very early whether it is the intended recepient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet if it is not. This will, for example, save power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power required to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore, for example, the station may go into a low power mode.



Communication Path 3: The legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from the access point (AP) 540.



Legacy stations in general are not aware of ER packet headers. Therefore, the legacy station 530 will correctly decode the first part of the ER packet which is contained in the first symbol of the header field and is identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field, except for the ER-enable bit which the legacy station 530 should ignore since it is reserved.



The legacy station 530 sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE/LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below allowing correct legacy operation of the 802.11a medium occupancy algorithms. Using the spoofed RATE and LENGTH information, the legacy station 530 will incorrectly demodulate the data symbols, since the station does not know the optimized communication parameters, until eventually a CRC error will cause the packet to be ignored.



Communication Path 4: Transmission of packets from an ER-capable station 510 to an access point (AP) 540.



The access point (AP) 540 detects the ER-enable bit, determines the received packet is an ER packet and decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field to determine if the packet is intended for itself. The access point 540 also decodes the TX STA ID in the ER header and determines which station has transmitted the packet. Based on this information, the access point 540 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving packets from that particular transmitter station. The access point 540 then uses the optimized parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., DATA Field, of the packet. Of course, the access point 540 had sent the optimized communication parameters to the transmitter station earlier in the communications session.



Communication Path 5: Another ER-capable station 520 accidentally receives a packet originating from ER station 510.



The station 510 detects the ER-enable bit, with the cooperation of the ER detection module, determines this is an ER packet and decodes, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, the RX ST ID bits in the extended header field to determine that the packet is not intended for itself. The station 510 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below. Since the station 510 knows that this packet is not intended for itself, the station 510 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when this happens, a station can detect very early that it is not the intended recepient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet. This will save, for example, power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power to decode the remainer of the packet and therefore the station may, for example, go into the low power mode.



Communication Path 6: Legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from an ER-enabled station 510.



This scenario produces the same results as illustrated in relation to communication path 3.



"Spoofing" the RATE and LENGTH Field.



When a legacy station receives an ER packet, such as in communication paths 3 and 6, the legacy station must be able to determine the duration of the packet, i.e., the time required for packet transmission, based on the standard 802.11a header contained in the first symbol of the ER packet header, which every station can correctly decode. Thus, for the legacy station, R1-R4 bits, which do not have any meaning to the ER-capable RX STA, must be set to one of the legitimate patterns used in the 802.11a standard, shown in Table 1. Additionally, the LENGTH field must be filled in conjunction with the RATE field in a way that the required time for packet transmission that the legacy RX STA would calculate based on the "spoofed" RATE and LENGTH parameters would coincide with the one that is needed by the ER RX STA using optimized communication parameters. This will guarantee that the legacy station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so the accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



A ER-capable RX STA will also exploit the spoofed RATE, LENGTH information shown in the SIGNAL field when the packet is not intended for its reception, such as in cases 2 and 5. Once the ER-capable RX STA recognizes that the reserved bit R is turned on, the ER-capable RX STA examines the extended SIGNAL symbol and, based on the RX STA ID, determines that this packet is not intended for itself Based on the `spoofed` RATE and LENGTH information in the SIGNAL Field, the RX STA sets the counters related with virtual carrier sense algorithm in exactly the same manner as the legacy station and may then enter the power saving mode.



As an example, the ER data rate is 108 Mbps, which is twice the maximum data rate (54 Mbps) of conventional 802.11a systems. This may be achieved by, for example, bit loading and using trellis coded modulation. A system transmitting at 108 Mbps will have 432 data bits per symbol. Therefore, transmitting a packet with, for example, 864 bytes will require 864*8/432=16 symbols. In addition, the ER protocol requires an extra symbol in the ER header, as compared to standard 802.11a systems, that contains the TX and RX Station IDs. Therefore, the transmission of an 864 byte packet requires 16+1=17 symbols at 108 Mbps. In order to allow legacy 802.11a stations to correctly determine the NAV, the RATE and LENGTH Fields of the ER header need to be set so that the legacy station will also determine that 17 symbols are needed for transmission of the packet. Therefore, for example, the RATE and LENGTH fields could be set to RATE=54 Mbps and LENGTH=459 bytes. In this case, since 54 Mbps results in 216 data bits per symbol, the legacy station would determine the packet duration to be 459*8/216=17 symbols and correctly set the NAV. Obviously other RATE and LENGTH combinations can be used from the 802.11a standard to enable the legacy station to correctly set the NAV. For example, RATE=6 Mbps and LENGTH=51 bytes would also result in a packet whose data field is 17 symbols long.



In the example described above, the extended header field only contained the RX and TX STA IDs. This implies that there is only one set of optimized parameters for each TX/RX communication. In an alternative embodiment, the extended header field also, or alternatively, contains an indication of which one of a plurality of optimized communication parameters sets is to be used for transmission and reception of a packet. These parameter sets are sent from the receiver station to the transmitter station and stored in each.



The above-described communication system can be implemented on wired or wireless telecommunications devices, such a modem, a multicarrier modem, a DSL modem, an ADSL modem, an XDSL modem, a VDSL modem, a multicarrier transceiver, wired or wireless wide/local area network system, or the like, or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device. Additionally, the systems, methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element(s), an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hard-wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, modem, transmitter/receiver, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts illustrated herein can be used to implement the various communication methods according to this invention.



Furthermore, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object-oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively, the disclosed communication system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and/or efficiency requirements of the system, the particular function, and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The communication systems, methods and protocols illustrated herein however can be readily implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and telecommunications arts.



Moreover, the disclosed methods can also be readily implemented in software, stored on an information storage media or computer-readable storage medium, such as a hard drive, memory or optical, magnet or magneto-optic disc, executed on programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor, or the like. In these instances, the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA.RTM. or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system, or the like. The communication system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems of a communications transceiver.



It is therefore apparent that there has been provided, in accordance with the present invention, systems and methods for exchanging communication parameters. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

PatentNumber=7929416,BACKGROUND



Embodiments of the invention are directed, in general, to communication systems and, more specifically, to pilot design used in communications systems.



The global market for both voice and data communication services continues to grow as does users of the systems which deliver those services. As communication systems evolve, system design has become increasingly demanding in relation to equipment and performance requirements. Future generations of communication systems, will be required to provide high quality high transmission rate data services in addition to high quality voice services. Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) is a technique that will allow for high speed voice and data communication services.



Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) is based on the well-known technique of Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM). OFDM technique relies on the orthogonality properties of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) and the inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) to eliminate interference between carriers. At the transmitter, the precise setting of the carrier frequencies is performed by the IFFT. The data is encoded into constellation points by multiple (one for each carrier) constellation encoders. The complex values of the constellation encoder outputs are the inputs to the IFFT. For wireless transmission, the outputs of the IFFT are converted to an analog waveform, up-converted to a radio frequency, amplified, and transmitted. At the receiver, the reverse process is performed. The received signal (input signal) is amplified, down converted to a band suitable for analog to digital conversion, digitized, and processed by a FFT to recover the carriers. The multiple carriers are then demodulated in multiple constellation decoders (one for each carrier), recovering the original data. Since an IFFT is used to combine the carriers at the transmitter and a corresponding FFT is used to separate the carriers at the receiver, the process has potentially zero inter-carrier interference.



FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrative of the Frequency 103--Time 101 Representation 100 of an OFDM Signal. In FDM different streams of information are mapped onto separate parallel frequency channels 140. Each FDM channel is separated from the others by a frequency guard band to reduce interference between adjacent channels.



The OFDM technique differs from traditional FDM in the following interrelated ways: 1. multiple carriers (called sub-carriers 150) carry the information stream; 2. the sub-carriers 150 are orthogonal to each other; and 3. a Cyclic Prefix (CP) 110 (also known as guard interval) is added to each symbol 120 to combat the channel delay spread and avoid OFDM inter-symbol interference (ISI).



The data/information carried by each sub-carrier 150 may be user data of many forms, including text, voice, video, and the like. In addition, the data includes control data, a particular type of which is discussed below. As a result of the orthogonality, ideally each receiving element tuned to a given sub-carrier does not perceive any of the signals communicated at any other of the sub-carriers. Given this aspect, various benefits arise. For example, OFDM is able to use orthogonal sub-carriers and, as a result, thorough use is made of the overall OFDM spectrum. As another example, in many wireless systems, the same transmitted signal arrives at the receiver at different times having traveled different lengths due to reflections in the channel between the transmitter and receiver. Each different arrival of the same originally-transmitted signal is typically referred to as a multi-path. Typically, multi-paths interfere with one another, which is sometimes referred to as InterSymbol Interference (ISI) because each path includes transmitted data referred to as symbols. Nonetheless, the orthogonality implemented by OFDM considerably reduces ISI and, as a result, often a less complex receiver structure, such as one without an equalizer, may be implemented in an OFDM system.



A Cyclic Prefix (CP) (also known as guard interval) is added to each symbol to combat the channel delay spread and avoid OFDM inter-symbol interference (ISI). FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrative of using Cyclic Prefix (CP) to eliminate ISI and perform frequency domain equalization. Blocks 200 each comprising cyclic prefix 210 coupled to data symbols 220 to perform frequency domain equalization. OFDM typically allows the application of simple, 1-tap, frequency domain equalization (FDE) through the use of a Cyclic Prefix (CP) 210 at every FFT processing block 200 to suppress multi-path interference. Two blocks are shown for drawing convenience. CP 210 eliminates inter-data-block interference and multi-access interference using Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA).



Since orthogonality is guaranteed between overlapping sub-carriers and between consecutive OFDM symbols in the presence of time/frequency dispersive channels, the data symbol density in the time-frequency plane can be maximized and high data rates can be very efficiently achieved for high Signal-to-Interference and Noise Ratios (SINR).



FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrative of Cyclic Prefix (CP) Insertion. A number of samples is typically inserted between useful OFDM symbols 320 (guard interval) to combat OFDM ISI induced by channel dispersion, assist receiver synchronization, and aid spectral shaping. The guard interval 310 is typically a prefix that is inserted 350 at the beginning of the useful OFDM symbol (OFDM symbol without the CP) 320. The CP duration 315 should be sufficient to cover most of the delay-spread energy of a radio channel impulse response. It should also be as small as possible since it represents overhead and reduces OFDM efficiency. Prefix 310 is generated using a last block of samples 340 from the useful OFDM symbol 330 and is therefore a cyclic extension to the OFDM symbol (cyclic prefix).



When the channel delay spread exceeds the CP duration 315, the energy contained in the ISI should be much smaller than the useful OFDM symbol energy and therefore, the OFDM symbol duration 325 should be much larger than the channel delay spread. However, the OFDM symbol duration 325 should be smaller than the minimum channel coherence time in order to maintain the OFDM ability to combat fast temporal fading. Otherwise, the channel may not always be constant over the OFDM symbol and this may result in inter-sub-carrier orthogonality loss in fast fading channels. Since the channel coherence time is inversely proportional to the maximum Doppler shift (time-frequency duality), this implies that the symbol duration should be much smaller than the inverse of the maximum Doppler shift.



The large number of OFDM sub-carriers makes the bandwidth of individual sub-carriers small relative to the total signal bandwidth. With an adequate number of sub-carriers, the inter-carrier spacing is much narrower than the channel coherence bandwidth. Since the channel coherence bandwidth is inversely proportional to the channel delay spread, the sub-carrier separation is generally designed to be much smaller that the inverse of the channel coherence time. Then, the fading on each sub-carrier appears flat in frequency and this enables 1-tap frequency equalization, use of high order modulation, and effective utilization of multiple transmitter and receiver antenna techniques such as Multiple Input/Multiple Output (MIMO). Therefore, OFDM effectively converts a frequency-selective channel into a parallel collection of frequency flat sub-channels and enables a very simple receiver. Moreover, in order to combat Doppler effects, the inter-carrier spacing should be much larger than the maximum Doppler shift.



The baseband representation 400 of the OFDM signal generation using an N-point IFFT 460 is shown in FIG. 4, where n refers to the n.sup.th sub-channel modulated data symbol 420, during the time 401 period 0<t.ltoreq.T.sub.u where Tu is OFDM useful symbol duration. The vector S is defined as the useful OFDM symbol and is practically the time superposition of the N narrowband modulated sub-carriers. Therefore, from a parallel stream of N data sources, a waveform composed of N orthogonal sub-carriers 407 is obtained. At the receiver, a computationally efficient Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) may be used to demodulate the multi-carrier information and to recover the transmitted data.



FIG. 5 shows the concepts of frequency diversity 500 and multi-user diversity 505. Using link adaptation techniques based on the estimated dynamic channel properties, the OFDM transmitter can adapt the transmitted signal to each User Equipment (UE) to match channel conditions and approach the ideal capacity of frequency-selective channel. Thanks to such properties as flattened channel per sub-carrier, high-order modulation, orthogonal sub-carriers, and MIMO; it is possible to improve spectrum utilization and increase achievable peak data rate in OFDM system. Also, OFDM can provide scalability for various channel bandwidths (i.e. 1.25, 2.5, 5, 10, 20 MHz) without significantly increasing complexity.



OFDM may be combined with Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMA) in an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) system to allow multiplexing of multiple UEs over the available bandwidth. Because OFDMA assigns UEs to isolated frequency sub-carriers, intra-cell interference may be avoided and high data rate may be achieved. The base station (or Node B) scheduler assigns physical channels based on Channel Quality Indication (CQI) feedback information from the UEs, thus effectively controlling the multiple-access mechanism in the cell. For example, in FIG. 5, transmission to each of the three UEs 501, 502, 503 is scheduled at frequency sub-bands where the channel frequency response allows for higher SINR relative to other sub-bands. This is represented by the Received signal levels R501, R502, and R503 for users 501, 502 and 503 at Frequencies F501, F502, and F503 respectively.



OFDM can use frequency-dependent scheduling with optimal per sub-band Modulation & Coding Scheme (MCS) selection. For each UE and each Transmission Time Interval (TTI), the Node B scheduler selects for transmission with the appropriate MCS a group of the active UEs in the cell, according to some criteria that typically incorporate the achievable SINR based on the CQI feedback. In addition, sub-carriers or group of sub-carriers may be reserved to transmit pilot, signaling or other channels. Multiplexing may also be performed in the time dimension, as long as it occurs at the OFDM symbol rate or at a multiple of the symbol rate (i.e. from one IFFT computation to the next). The MCS used for each sub-carrier or group of sub-carriers can also be changed at the corresponding rate, keeping the computational simplicity of the FFT-based implementation. This allows 2-dimensional time-frequency multiplexing, as shown in FIG. 6 and FIG. 7.



Transmission Time Interval (TTI) may also be referred to as a frame.



Turning now to FIG. 6, which is a diagram illustrative of a configuration for multi-user diversity. The minimum frequency sub-band used for frequency-dependent scheduling of a UE typically comprises of several sub-carriers and may be referred to as a Resource Block (RB) 620. Reference number 620 is only pointing to one of the 8 RBs per OFDM symbol shown as example and for drawing clarity. RB 620 is shown with RB bandwidth 625 in frequency dimension and TTI duration 610 in time dimension. Each RB may be comprised of continuous sub-carriers and thus be localized in nature to afford frequency-dependent scheduling. A high data rate UE may use several RBs within same TTI 630. UE #1 is shown as an example of a high rate UE. Low data rate UEs may be multiplexed within the same RB 640.



Alternatively referring to FIG. 7, which is a diagram illustrative of a configuration for frequency diversity, an RB 720 may correspond to a number of sub-carriers substantially occupying the entire bandwidth thereby offering frequency diversity. This may be useful in situations where CQI feedback is not available or it is unreliable (as is the case for high speed UEs).



To facilitate data-aided methods, OFDM systems periodically insert reference (or pilot) symbols that are known a priori, into the transmission signal. The receiver can thus estimate the channel response based on the received pilot symbols and the known transmitted pilot symbols. In an OFDM based communication system, pilot symbols are transmitted in addition to data symbols in order to serve, inter aila, in providing a reference for the receiver to estimate the channel medium and accordingly demodulate the received signal. A pilot signal also referred to as reference signal is composed of the pilot symbols.



The DownLink (DL) pilot signal should provide effective performance for the following functions: Channel estimation at all possible operating carrier frequencies for all physical channels for all channel multi-path delay spreads (frequency selectivity) encountered in practice and for all UE speeds of interest. CQI measurement for link adaptation and channel-dependent scheduling. Sector identification of sector within the same cell. Measurements for cell search and handover.



UE dedicated pilot signals may also be used for UE-dependent adaptive beam-forming. Moreover, as the pilot signal is actually overhead consuming resources that could have been otherwise dedicated for data transmission, it should have minimum time/frequency and power overhead.



Two types of pilot structure have been previously examined; i) a Time-Division Multiplexed (TDM) pilot structure where the pilot signal is placed on a single OFDM symbol per TTI (FIG. 8). ii) a scattered pilot structure where the pilot signal is placed in every OFDM symbol per TTI (FIG. 9)



In the example shown in FIG. 8, the TTI is assumed to comprise of seven OFDM symbols 810. Moreover, the TTI duration is assumed to be 0.5 milliseconds. Shaded dots indicate pilot locations for 1 transmit antenna. In the example of FIG. 9, the TTI is assumed to comprise of seven OFDM symbols 910. Shaded dots indicate pilot locations for 1 transmit antenna. Channel estimation is based on time and frequency interpolation among pilot sub-carriers in order to obtain the channel estimates at the position corresponding to data sub-carriers. In order to be able to perform frequency interpolation, the pilot sub-carrier spacing in the frequency domain should be smaller than the 50% correlation coherence bandwidth of the channel for all channels of interest. Similarly, in order to be able to perform time interpolation, the pilot sub-carrier spacing in the time domain should be smaller than the 50% coherence time of the channel at the operating carrier frequency for all UE speeds of interest. The example shown in FIG. 8 has a spacing in frequency domain .DELTA.F.sub.pil 830 of 4 sub-carriers and spacing in time domain .DELTA.T.sub.pil 820 of 7 OFDM symbols. The example shown in FIG. 9 has a spacing in frequency domain .DELTA.F.sub.pil 930 of 4 sub-carriers and spacing in time domain .DELTA.T.sub.pil 920 of 1 OFDM symbol.



Additional requirements for the pilot signal design may relate to the ability to demodulate only an initial sub-set of the TTI without having to receive the entire TTI. This is applicable, for example, when the control channel associated with scheduling of UEs in the current TTI at various RBs is transmitted in the first few OFDM symbols in every TTI. Then, it may be beneficial to demodulate and decode the control channel prior to the reception of the remaining OFDM symbols in the referenced TTI in order to reduce latency. Moreover, in order to improve channel estimation performance, it is desirable to capture as much of the transmitted pilot signal power as possible without additional latency. Clearly, the pilot signal power from preceding TTIs may be assumed available to the UE but the UE will have to incur additional decoding latency if it were to obtain the pilot signal power from succeeding TTIs. However, this would be particularly desirable for channel estimation performance as it would result to pilot signal availability that is more symmetric relative to the TTI of interest.



Based on the above discussion, the following disadvantages can be directly identified for the pilot structures of prior art: 1) The TDM pilot structure cannot provide reliable channel estimation and communication support at high UE speeds. For example, for a UE speed of 250 Kmph and carrier frequency of 2.6 GHz, the channel at the fourth OFDM symbol in the TTI structure of FIG. 8 has very little correlation with the channel at the first OFDM symbol of the same TTI or the channel at the first OFDM symbol of the next TTI where the pilot sub-carriers are located. The same problem would persist if the pilot sub-carriers were placed at another OFDM symbol in the TTI (not the first symbol). 2) The nature of the scattered pilot structure results to very little pilot signal power concentration per OFDM symbol. As a result, if the control channel is transmitted in the first few OFDM symbols in the TTI, there may not be enough pilot signal power to demodulate is prior to the reception of the entire TTI. Moreover, if any substantial pilot signal power from the succeeding TTI is to be obtained in order to provide some symmetry in the channel estimated for the TTI of interest, substantial latency will be incurred as the pilot sub-carriers in several OFDM symbols of the succeeding TTI will need to be captured.



There is a need for an improved pilot structure design in order to achieve accurate channel estimates for high user equipment (UE) speeds in mobile operations while also achieve the ability to use substantial pilot energy from succeeding TTI with minimum latency.



SUMMARY



In light of the foregoing background, embodiments of the invention provide a method for generating a structure in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing communication system having a transmitter with a least one transmitting antenna, said method comprising; composing a frame with a time domain and a frequency domain, wherein the frame has a transmission time interval in the time domain with a beginning and an ending; and locating a pilot, having pilot power level, from a first at least one antenna into two orthogonal frequency division multiplexing symbols of said frame.



Therefore, the system and method of embodiments of the present invention solve the problems identified by prior techniques and provide additional advantages.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:



FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrative of the Frequency-Time Representation of an OFDM Signal;



FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrative of using cyclic prefix (CP) to eliminate ISI and perform frequency domain equalization;



FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrative of Cyclic Prefix (CP) Insertion



FIG. 4 shows OFDM Useful Symbol Generation Using an inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT);



FIG. 5 shows the concepts of frequency and multi-user diversity;



FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrative of a configuration for Multi-User Diversity;



FIG. 7, which is a diagram illustrative of a configuration for frequency diversity;



FIG. 8 shows an exemplary Time-Division Multiplexed (TDM) pilot structure;



FIG. 9 shows an exemplary scattered pilot structure;



FIG. 10 shows a staggered pilot structure in accordance with embodiments of the invention using one transmit antenna;



FIG. 11 shows a staggered pilot structure in accordance with embodiments of the invention using two transmit antennas; and



FIG. 12 shows a staggered pilot structure in accordance with embodiments of the invention using four transmit antennas.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



The invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In this disclosure, the term pilot parameters can mean pilot power, number of pilot fields, pilot position, power of each pilot field, etc. The term speed and velocity may be used interchangeably. One skilled in the art may be able to use the various embodiments of the invention to use both the speed and direction of a mobile to adjust other parameters to vary the power and direction of signal transmission.



A novel pilot structure circumventing the aforementioned shortcomings is presented in embodiments of this invention. FIG. 10 shows a staggered pilot structure for the exemplary case of one transmit antenna, but several obvious extensions are discussed for more transmit antennas. Staggered pilot structure 1000 comprises a TTI of seven OFDM symbols 1010. Shaded dots 1060 indicate pilot locations for 1 transmit antenna. Non-shaded dots 1050 indicate data sub-carrier. The exemplary embodiment shown in FIG. 1000 has a spacing in frequency domain .DELTA.F.sub.pil 1030 of 4 sub-carriers and spacing in time domain .DELTA.T.sub.pil 1020 of 4 OFDM symbols.



The attributes of the staggered pilot signal structures disclosed in the embodiments can be summarized as follows: i) The pilot signal power is divided in the beginning and middle of the TTI. In the exemplary embodiment, 50% of the pilot signal power from the transmit antenna is placed at the first OFDM symbol 1001 and the remaining 50% is placed at the fifth OFDM symbol 1005 of the seven OFDM symbol exemplary TTI 1010. Placing the pilot signal power at the second and the sixth OFDM symbols instead of the first and fifth OFDM symbols is an alternative of dividing the pilot signal power between the beginning and middle of the TTI. Asymmetric power allocation may also be possible. ii) For the exemplary TTI structure 1010 having 0.5 milliseconds duration, the staggered pilot signal structure can maintain good channel estimation quality even for very high speeds of interest as channel estimates can be always obtained well before the 50% coherence time period of the channel. iii) The pilot sub-carrier spacing in the frequency domain can be easily designed to be smaller that the 50% correlation coherence bandwidth for the longest channel among the channels of interest. iv) Sufficient pilot signal energy exists in the first OFDM symbol 1001 of the



TTI of interest 1010A and the preceding TTI 10108 to decode a control channel that may be located in the first few OFDM symbols with minimal performance degradation and without additional latency from the absence of the pilot sub-carriers at the fifth OFDM symbol of the TTI. v) Sufficient pilot signal energy exists in the first OFDM symbol 1001 of the succeeding TTI 10108 to materially improve channel estimation performance while resulting to minimal additional decoding latency of one OFDM symbol and being applicable to most of the current TTI 1010A even at high UE speeds.



The above and other properties of the staggered pilot signal design can assist in the development of OFDM systems offering reliable and robust communication from a Node B to the receiving UEs. Node B may be a base station, access point or the like network entity.



FIG. 11 and FIG. 12 further expand the concept of materially dividing the pilot signal power transmitted by an antenna to two OFDM symbols per TTI for the cases of two transmit FIG. 11 and four transmit antennas FIG. 12.



In FIG. 11, similarly to the one transmit antenna case of FIG. 10, the pilot sub-carriers from the two antennas are placed on the first OFDM symbol 1101 and fifth OFDM symbol 1105. Alternatively, the pilot sub-carriers from the second antenna could be placed on the second OFDM symbol 1102 and sixth OFDM symbol 1106.



In FIG. 12, similarly to that two transmit antennas case of FIG. 11, the pilot sub-carriers from the first two antennas are placed on the first OFDM symbol 1201 and fifth OFDM symbol 1205 while the pilot sub-carriers from the third and fourth antennas are placed on the second OFDM symbol 1202 and sixth OFDM symbol 1206.



Embodiments of the invention can be implemented in either the transmitter or the receiver, or in both, of a multi-carrier system, such as an OFDM system, using software, hardware, or a combination of software and hardware. The software is assumed to be embodied as a lookup table, an algorithm, or other program code that defines the pilot structure in a time transmission interval or frame.



An apparatus for an OFDM based communication system operating in accordance with an OFDM transmission technique would be coupled to a plurality of transmitting antennas and comprise a mapper for converting an input signal to a plurality of data symbols, transmitter circuitry adapted to insert pilot symbols with the data symbols for each transmitting antenna, a modulator for modulating said pilot symbols and data symbols in a transmission time interval in accordance with an OFDM transmission technique. The transmission time interval has multiple OFDM symbols. The power level of the pilot symbols is divided into two OFDM symbols in the transmission time interval. The input signal and plurality of data symbols are comprised of sub-sets, each sub-set intended to a unique receiver in the OFDM based communication system.



Embodiments of the invention may be utilized in a receiver in an OFDM based communication system adapted to perform channel estimation using a received reference signal transmitted from at least one antenna, said reference signal being substantially located into two OFDM symbols. The receiver may also be adapted to use the reference signal located in the first OFDM symbol in succeeding transmission time intervals in addition to the reference symbols in the current and preceding transmission time intervals.



Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions, the associated drawings, and claims. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

PatentNumber=7933244,FIELD OF THE INVENTION



The invention relates to the field of wireless communications; more particularly, the invention relates to multi-cell, multi-subscriber wireless systems using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM).



BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is an efficient modulation scheme for signal transmission over frequency-selective channels. In OFDM, a wide bandwidth is divided into multiple narrow-band subcarriers, which are arranged to be orthogonal with each other. The signals modulated on the subcarriers are transmitted in parallel. For more information, see Cimini, Jr., "Analysis and Simulation of a Digital Mobile Channel Using Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing," IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. COM-33, no. 7, July 1985, pp. 665-75; Chuang and Sollenberger, "Beyond 3G: Wideband Wireless Data Access Based on OFDM and Dynamic Packet Assignment," IEEE Communications Magazine, Vol. 38, No. 7, pp. 78-87, July 2000.



One way to use OFDM to support multiple access for multiple subscribers is through time division multiple access (TDMA), in which each subscriber uses all the subcarriers within its assigned time slots. Orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) is another method for multiple access, using the basic format of OFDM. In OFDMA, multiple subscribers simultaneously use different subcarriers, in a fashion similar to frequency division multiple access (FDMA). For more information, see Sari and Karam, "Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiple Access and its Application to CATV Networks," European Transactions on Telecommunications, Vol. 9 (6), pp. 507-516, November/December 1998 and Nogueroles, Bossert, Donder, and Zyablov, "Improved Performance of a Random OFDMA Mobile Communication System,", Proceedings of IEEE VTC'98, pp. 2502-2506.



Multipath causes frequency-selective fading. The channel gains are different for different subcarriers. Furthermore, the channels are typically uncorrelated for different subscribers. The subcarriers that are in deep fade for one subscriber may provide high channel gains for another subscriber. Therefore, it is advantageous in an OFDMA system to adaptively allocate the subcarriers to subscribers so that each subscriber enjoys a high channel gain. For more information, see Wong et al., "Multiuser OFDM with Adaptive Subcarrier, Bit and Power Allocation," IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., Vol. 17(10), pp. 1747-1758, October 1999.



Within one cell, the subscribers can be coordinated to have different subcarriers in OFDMA. The signals for different subscribers can be made orthogonal and there is little intracell interference. However, with aggressive frequency reuse plan, e.g., the same spectrum is used for multiple neighboring cells, the problem of intercell interference arises. It is clear that the intercell interference in an OFDMA system is also frequency selective and it is advantageous to adaptively allocate the subcarriers so as to mitigate the effect of intercell interference.



One approach to subcarrier allocation for OFDMA is a joint optimization operation, not only requiring the activity and channel knowledge of all the subscribers in all the cells, but also requiring frequent rescheduling every time an existing subscribers is dropped off the network or a new subscribers is added onto the network. This is often impractical in real wireless system, mainly due to the bandwidth cost for updating the subscriber information and the computation cost for the joint optimization.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



A method and apparatus for subcarrier selection for systems is described. In one embodiment, the system employs orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA). In one embodiment, a method for subcarrier selection comprises a subscriber measuring channel and interference information for subcarriers based on pilot symbols received from a base station, the subscriber selecting a set of candidate subcarriers, providing feedback information on the set of candidate subcarriers to the base station, and receiving an indication of subcarriers of the set of subcarriers selected by the base station for use by the subscriber.



The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The present invention will be understood more fully from the detailed description given below and from the accompanying drawings of various embodiments of the invention, which, however, should not be taken to limit the invention to the specific embodiments, but are for explanation and understanding only.



FIG. 1A illustrates subcarriers and clusters.



FIG. 1B is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a process for allocating subcarriers.



FIG. 2 illustrates time and frequency grid of OFDM symbols, pilots and clusters.



FIG. 3 illustrates subscriber processing.



FIG. 4 illustrates one example of FIG. 3.



FIG. 5 illustrates one embodiment of a format for arbitrary cluster feedback.



FIG. 6 illustrates one embodiment of a partition the clusters into groups.



FIG. 7 illustrates one embodiment of a feedback format for group-based cluster allocation.



FIG. 8 illustrates frequency reuse and interference in a multi-cell, multi-sector network.



FIG. 9 illustrates different cluster formats for coherence clusters and diversity clusters.



FIG. 10 illustrates diversity clusters with subcarrier hopping.



FIG. 11 illustrates intelligent switching between diversity clusters and coherence clusters depending on subscribers mobility.



FIG. 12 illustrates one embodiment of a reconfiguration of cluster classification.



FIG. 13 illustrates one embodiment of a base station.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION



An approach for subcarrier allocation is described. A method and apparatus for subcarrier selection for systems is described. IN one embodiment, a method for subcarrier selection for a system employing orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) comprises partitioning subcarriers into groups of at least one cluster of subcarriers, receiving an indication of a selection by the subscriber of one or more groups in the groups, and allocating at least one cluster in the one or more groups of clusters selected by the subcarrier for use in communication with the subscriber.



The techniques disclosed herein are described using OFDMA (clusters) as an example. However, they are not limited to OFDMA-based systems. The techniques apply to multi-carrier systems in general, where, for example, a carrier can be a cluster in OFDMA, a spreading code in CDMA, an antenna beam in SDMA (space-division multiple access), etc. In one embodiment, subcarrier allocation is performed in each cell separately. Within each cell, the allocation for individual subscribers (e.g., mobiles) is also made progressively as each new subscriber is added to the system as opposed to joint allocation for subscribers within each cell in which allocation decisions are made taking into account all subscribers in a cell for each allocation.



For downlink channels, each subscriber first measures the channel and interference information for all the subcarriers and then selects multiple subcarriers with good performance (e.g., a high signal-to-interference plus noise ratio (SINR)) and feeds back the information on these candidate subcarriers to the base station. The feedback may comprise channel and interference information (e.g., signal-to-interference-plus-noise-ratio information) on all subcarriers or just a portion of subcarriers. In case of providing information on only a portion of the subcarriers, a subscriber may provide a list of subcarriers ordered starting with those subcarriers which the subscriber desires to use, usually because their performance is good or better than that of other subcarriers.



Upon receiving the information from the subscriber, the base station further selects the subcarriers among the candidates, utilizing additional information available at the base station, e.g., the traffic load information on each subcarrier, amount of traffic requests queued at the base station for each frequency band, whether frequency bands are overused, and/or how long a subscriber has been waiting to send information. In one embodiment, the subcarrier loading information of neighboring cells can also be exchanged between base stations. The base stations can use this information in subcarrier allocation to reduce inter-cell interference.



In one embodiment, the selection by the base station of the channels to allocate, based on the feedback, results in the selection of coding/modulation rates. Such coding/modulation rates may be specified by the subscriber when specifying subcarriers that it finds favorable to use. For example, if the SINR is less than a certain threshold (e.g., 12 dB), quadrature phase shift keying (QPSK) modulation is used; otherwise, 16 quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) is used. Then the base station informs the subscribers about the subcarrier allocation and the coding/modulation rates to use. I



In one embodiment, the feedback information for downlink subcarrier allocation is transmitted to the base station through the uplink access channel, which occurs in a short period every transmission time slot, e.g., 400 microseconds in every 10-millisecond time slot. In one embodiment, the access channel occupies the entire frequency bandwidth. Then the base station can collect the uplink SINR of each subcarrier directly from the access channel. The SINR as well as the traffic load information on the uplink subcarriers are used for uplink subcarrier allocation.



For either direction, the base station makes the final decision of subcarrier allocation for each subscriber.



In the following description, a procedure of selective subcarrier allocation is also disclosed, including methods of channel and interference sensing, methods of information feedback from the subscribers to the base station, and algorithms used by the base station for subcarrier selections.



In the following description, numerous details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art, that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail, in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.



Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.



It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as "processing" or "computing" or "calculating" or "determining" or "displaying" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.



The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs, and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each coupled to a computer system bus.



The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.



A machine-readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). For example, a machine-readable medium includes read only memory ("ROM"); random access memory ("RAM"); magnetic disk storage media; optical storage media; flash memory devices; electrical, optical, acoustical or other form of propagated signals (e.g., carrier waves, infrared signals, digital signals, etc.); etc.



Subcarrier Clustering



The techniques described herein are directed to subcarrier allocation for data traffic channels. In a cellular system, there are typically other channels, pre-allocated for the exchange of control information and other purposes. These channels often include down link and up link control channels, uplink access channels, and time and frequency synchronization channels.



FIG. 1A illustrates multiple subcarriers, such as subcarrier 101, and cluster 102. A cluster, such as cluster 102, is defined as a logical unit that contains at least one physical subcarrier, as shown in FIG. 1A. A cluster can contain consecutive or disjoint subcarriers. The mapping between a cluster and its subcarriers can be fixed or reconfigurable. In the latter case, the base station informs the subscribers when the clusters are redefined. In one embodiment, the frequency spectrum includes 512 subcarriers and each cluster includes four consecutive subcarriers, thereby resulting in 128 clusters.



An Exemplary Subcarrier/Cluster Allocation Procedure



FIG. 1B is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a process for allocation clusters to subscribers. The process is performed by processing logic that may comprise hardware (e.g., dedicated logic, circuitry, etc.), software (such as that which runs on, for example, a general purpose computer system or dedicated machine), or a combination of both.



Referring to FIG. 1B, each base station periodically broadcasts pilot OFDM symbols to every subscriber within its cell (or sector) (processing block 101). The pilot symbols, often referred to as a sounding sequence or signal, are known to both the base station and the subscribers. In one embodiment, each pilot symbol covers the entire OFDM frequency bandwidth. The pilot symbols may be different for different cells (or sectors). The pilot symbols can serve multiple purposes: time and frequency synchronization, channel estimation and signal-to-interference/noise (SINR) ratio measurement for cluster allocation.



Next, each subscriber continuously monitors the reception of the pilot symbols and measures the SINR and/or other parameters, including inter-cell interference and intra-cell traffic, of each cluster (processing block 102). Based on this information, each subscriber selects one or more clusters with good performance (e.g., high SINR and low traffic loading) relative to each other and feeds back the information on these candidate clusters to the base station through predefined uplink access channels (processing block 103). For example, SINR values higher than 10 dB may indicate good performance. Likewise, a cluster utilization factor less than 50% may be indicative of good performance. Each subscriber selects the clusters with relatively better performance than others. The selection results in each subscriber selecting clusters they would prefer to use based on the measured parameters.



In one embodiment, each subscriber measures the SINR of each subcarrier cluster and reports these SINR measurements to their base station through an access channel. The SINR value may comprise the average of the SINR values of each of the subcarriers in the cluster. Alternatively, the SINR value for the cluster may be the worst SINR among the SINR values of the subcarriers in the cluster. In still another embodiment, a weighted averaging of SINR values of the subcarriers in the cluster is used to generate an SINR value for the cluster. This may be particularly useful in diversity clusters where the weighting applied to the subcarriers may be different.



The feedback of information from each subscriber to the base station contains a SINR value for each cluster and also indicates the coding/modulation rate that the subscriber desires to use. No cluster index is needed to indicate which SINR value in the feedback corresponds to which cluster as long as the order of information in the feedback is known to the base station. In an alternative embodiment, the information in the feedback is ordered according to which clusters have the best performance relative to each other for the subscriber. In such a case, an index is needed to indicate to which cluster the accompanying SINR value corresponds.



Upon receiving the feedback from a subscriber, the base station further selects one or more clusters for the subscriber among the candidates (processing block 104). The base station may utilize additional information available at the base station, e.g., the traffic load information on each subcarrier, amount of traffic requests queued at the base station for each frequency band, whether frequency bands are overused, and how long a subscriber has been waiting to send information. The subcarrier loading information of neighboring cells can also be exchanged between base stations. The base stations can use this information in subcarrier allocation to reduce inter-cell interference.



After cluster selection, the base station notifies the subscriber about the cluster allocation through a downlink common control channel or through a dedicated downlink traffic channel if the connection to the subscriber has already been established (processing block 105). In one embodiment, the base station also informs the subscriber about the appropriate modulation/coding rates.



Once the basic communication link is established, each subscriber can continue to send the feedback to the base station using a dedicated traffic channel (e.g., one or more predefined uplink access channels).



In one embodiment, the base station allocates all the clusters to be used by a subscriber at once. In an alternative embodiment, the base station first allocates multiple clusters, referred to herein as the basic clusters, to establish a data link between the base station and the subscriber. The base station then subsequently allocates more clusters, referred to herein as the auxiliary clusters, to the subscriber to increase the communication bandwidth. Higher priorities can be given to the assignment of basic clusters and lower priorities may be given to that of auxiliary clusters. For example, the base station first ensures the assignment of the basic clusters to the subscribers and then tries to satisfy further requests on the auxiliary clusters from the subscribers. Alternatively, the base station may assign auxiliary clusters to one or more subscribers before allocating basic clusters to other subscribers. For example, a base station may allocate basic and auxiliary clusters to one subscriber before allocating any clusters to other subscribers. In one embodiment, the base station allocates basic clusters to a new subscriber and then determines if there are any other subscribers requesting clusters. If not, then the base station allocates the auxiliary clusters to that new subscriber.



From time to time, processing logic performs retraining by repeating the process described above (processing block 106). The retraining may be performed periodically. This retraining compensates for subscriber movement and any changes in interference. In one embodiment, each subscriber reports to the base station its updated selection of clusters and their associated SINRs. Then the base station further performs the reselection and informs the subscriber about the new cluster allocation. Retraining can be initiated by the base station, and in which case, the base station requests a specific subscriber to report its updated cluster selection. Retraining can also be initiated by the subscriber when it observes channel deterioration.



Adaptive Modulation and Coding



In one embodiment, different modulation and coding rates are used to support reliable transmission over channels with different SINR. Signal spreading over multiple subcarriers may also be used to improve the reliability at very low SINR.



An example coding/modulation table is given below in Table 1.



TABLE-US-00001 Scheme Modulation Code Rate 0 QPSK, 1/8 Spreading 1/2 1 QPSK, 1/4 Spreading 1/2 2 QPSK, 1/2 Spreading 1/2 3 QPSK 1/2 4 8PSK 2/3 5 16QAM 3/4 6 64QAM



In the example above, 1/8 spreading indicates that one QPSK modulation symbol is repeated over eight subcarriers. The repetition/spreading may also be extended to the time domain. For example, one QPSK symbol can be repeated over four subcarriers of two OFDM symbols, resulting also 1/8 spreading.



The coding/modulation rate can be adaptively changed according to the channel conditions observed at the receiver after the initial cluster allocation and rate selection.



Pilot Symbols and SINR Measurement



In one embodiment, each base station transmits pilot symbols simultaneously, and each pilot symbol occupies the entire OFDM frequency bandwidth, as shown in FIGS. 2A-C. Referring to FIG. 2A-C, pilot symbols 201 are shown traversing the entire OFDM frequency bandwidth for cells A, B and C, respectively. In one embodiment, each of the pilot symbols have a length or duration of 128 microseconds with a guard time, the combination of which is approximately 152 microseconds. After each pilot period, there are a predetermined number of data periods followed by another set of pilot symbols. In one embodiment, there are four data periods used to transmit data after each pilot, and each of the data periods is 152 microseconds.



A subscriber estimates the SINR for each cluster from the pilot symbols. In one embodiment, the subscriber first estimates the channel response, including the amplitude and phase, as if there is no interference or noise. Once the channel is estimated, the subscriber calculates the interference/noise from the received signal.



The estimated SINR values may be ordered from largest to smallest SINRs and the clusters with large SINR values are selected. In one embodiment, the selected clusters have SINR values that are larger than the minimum SINR which still allows a reliable (albeit low-rate) transmission supported by the system. The number of clusters selected may depend on the feedback bandwidth and the request transmission rate. In one embodiment, the subscriber always tries to send the information about as many clusters as possible from which the base station chooses.



The estimated SINR values are also used to choose the appropriate coding/modulation rate for each cluster as discussed above. By using an appropriate SINR indexing scheme, an SINR index may also indicate a particular coding and modulation rate that a subscriber desires to use. Note that even for the same subscribers, different clusters can have different modulation/coding rates.



Pilot symbols serve an additional purpose in determining interference among the cells. Since the pilots of multiple cells are broadcast at the same time, they will interfere with each other (because they occupy the entire frequency band). This collision of pilot symbols may be used to determine the amount of interference as a worst case scenario. Therefore, in one embodiment, the above SINR estimation using this method is conservative in that the measured interference level is the worst-case scenario, assuming that all the interference sources are on. Thus, the structure of pilot symbols is such that it occupies the entire frequency band and causes collisions among different cells for use in detecting the worst case SINR in packet transmission systems.



During data traffic periods, the subscribers can determine the level of interference again. The data traffic periods are used to estimate the intra-cell traffic as well as the inter-cell interference level. Specifically, the power difference during the pilot and traffic periods may be used to sense the (intra-cell) traffic loading and inter-cell interference to select the desirable clusters.



The interference level on certain clusters may be lower, because these clusters may be unused in the neighboring cells. For example, in cell A, with respect to cluster A there is less interference because cluster A is unused in cell B (while it is used in cell C). Similarly, in cell A, cluster B will experience lower interference from cell B because cluster B is used in cell B but not in cell C.



The modulation/coding rate based on this estimation is robust to frequent interference changes resulted from bursty packet transmission. This is because the rate prediction is based on the worst case situation in which all interference sources are transmitting.



In one embodiment, a subscriber utilizes the information available from both the pilot symbol periods and the data traffic periods to analyze the presence of both the intra-cell traffic load and inter-cell interference. The goal of the subscriber is to provide an indication to the base station as to those clusters that the subscriber desires to use. Ideally, the result of the selection by the subscriber is clusters with high channel gain, low interference from other cells, and high availability. The subscriber provides feedback information that includes the results, listing desired clusters in order or not as described herein.



FIG. 3 illustrates one embodiment of subscriber processing. The processing is performed by processing logic that may comprise hardware (e.g., dedicated logic, circuitry, etc.), software (such as that which runs on, for example, a general purpose computer system or dedicated machine), or a combination of both.



Referring to FIG. 3, channel/interference estimation processing block 301 performs channel and interference estimation in pilot periods in response to pilot symbols. Traffic/interference analysis processing block 302 performs traffic and interference analysis in data periods in response to signal information and information from channel/interference estimation block 301.



Cluster ordering and rate prediction processing block 303 is coupled to outputs of channel/interference estimation processing block 301 and traffic/interference analysis processing block 302 to perform cluster ordering and selection along with rate prediction.



The output of cluster ordering processing block 303 is input to cluster request processing block 304, which requests clusters and modulation/coding rates. Indications of these selections are sent to the base station. In one embodiment, the SINR on each cluster is reported to the base station through an access channel. The information is used for cluster selection to avoid clusters with heavy intra-cell traffic loading and/or strong interference from other cells. That is, a new subscriber may not be allocated use of a particular cluster if heavy intra-cell traffic loading already exists with respect to that cluster. Also, clusters may not be allocated if the interference is so strong that the SINR only allows for low-rate transmission or no reliable transmission at all.



The channel/interference estimation by processing block 301 is well-known in the art by monitoring the interference that is generated due to full-bandwidth pilot symbols being simultaneously broadcast in multiple cells. The interface information is forwarded to processing block 302 which uses the information to solve the following equation: H.sub.iS.sub.i+I.sub.i+n.sub.i=y.sub.i where S.sub.i represents the signal for subcarrier (freq. band) i, I.sub.i is the interference for subcarrier i, n.sub.i is the noise associated with subcarrier i, and y.sub.i is the observation for subcarrier i. In the case of 512 subcarriers, i may range from 0 to 511. The I.sub.i and n.sub.i are not separated and may be considered one quantity. The interference/noise and channel gain H.sub.i are not know. During pilot periods, the signal S.sub.i representing the pilot symbols, and the observation y.sub.i are knowns, thereby allowing determination of the channel gain H.sub.i for the case where there is no interference or noise. Once this is known, it may be plugged back into the equation to determine the interference/noise during data periods since H.sub.i, S.sub.i and y.sub.i are all known.



The interference information from processing blocks 301 and 302 are used by the subscriber to select desirable clusters. In one embodiment, using processing block 303, the subscriber orders clusters and also predicts the data rate that would be available using such clusters. The predicted data rate information may be obtained from a look up table with precalculated data rate values. Such a look up table may store the pairs of each SINR and its associated desirable transmission rate. Based on this information, the subscriber selects clusters that it desires to use based on predetermined performance criteria. Using the ordered list of clusters, the subscriber requests the desired clusters along with coding and modulation rates known to the subscriber to achieve desired data rates.



FIG. 4 is one embodiment of an apparatus for the selection of clusters based on power difference. The approach uses information available during both pilot symbol periods and data traffic periods to perform energy detection. The processing of FIG. 4 may be implemented in hardware, (e.g., dedicated logic, circuitry, etc.), software (such as is run on, for example, a general purpose computer system or dedicated machine), or a combination of both.



Referring to FIG. 4, a subscriber includes SINR estimation processing block 401 to perform SINR estimation for each cluster in pilot periods, power calculation processing block 402 to perform power calculations for each cluster in pilot periods, and power calculation processing block 403 to perform power calculations in data periods for each cluster. Subtractor 404 subtracts the power calculations for data periods from processing block 403 from those in pilot periods from processing block 402. The output of subtractor 404 is input to power difference ordering (and group selection) processing block 405 that performs cluster ordering and selection based on SINR and the power difference between pilot periods and data periods. Once the clusters have been selected, the subscriber requests the selected clusters and the coding/modulation rates with processing block 406.



More specifically, in one embodiment, the signal power of each cluster during the pilot periods is compared with that during the traffic periods, according to the following: P.sub.PP.sub.S+P.sub.I+P.sub.N,



.times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..tim- es..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..- times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00001## where P.sub.P is the measured power corresponding to each cluster during pilot periods, P.sub.D is the measured power during the traffic periods, P.sub.S is the signal power, P.sub.I is the interference power, and P.sub.N is the noise power.



In one embodiment, the subscriber selects clusters with relatively large P.sub.p/(P.sub.P-P.sub.D) (e.g., larger than a threshold such as 10 dB) and avoids clusters with low P.sub.p/(P.sub.P-P.sub.D) (e.g., lower than a threshold such as 10 dB) when possible.



Alternatively, the difference may be based on the energy difference between observed samples during the pilot period and during the data traffic period for each of the subcarriers in a cluster such as the following: .DELTA..sub.i=|y.sub.i.sup.P|-|y.sub.i.sup.D| Thus, the subscriber sums the differences for all subcarriers.



Depending on the actual implementation, a subscriber may use the following metric, a combined function of both SINR and P.sub.P-P.sub.D, to select the clusters: .beta.=f(SINR, P.sub.P/(P.sub.P-P.sub.D) where f is a function of the two inputs. One example of f is weighted averaging (e.g., equal weights). Alternatively, a subscriber selects a cluster based on its SINR and only uses the power difference P.sub.P-P.sub.D to distinguish clusters with similar SINR. The difference may be smaller than a threshold (e.g., 1 dB).



Both the measurement of SINR and P.sub.P-P.sub.D can be averaged over time to reduce variance and improve accuracy. In one embodiment, a moving-average time window is used that is long enough to average out the statistical abnormality yet short enough to capture the time-varying nature of channel and interference, e.g., 1 millisecond.



Feedback Format for Downlink Cluster Allocation



In one embodiment, for the downlink, the feedback contains both the indices of selected clusters and their SINR. An exemplary format for arbitrary cluster feedback is shown in FIG. 5. Referring to FIG. 5, the subscriber provides a cluster index (ID) to indicate the cluster and its associated SINR value. For example, in the feedback, the subscriber provides cluster ID1 (501) and the SINR for the cluster, SINR1 (502), cluster ID2 (503) and the SINR for the cluster, SINR2 (504), and cluster ID3 (505), and the SINR for the cluster, SINR3 (506), etc. The SINR for the cluster may be created using an average of the SINRs of the subcarriers. Thus, multiple arbitrary clusters can be selected as the candidates. As discussed above, the selected clusters can also be ordered in the feedback to indicate priority. In one embodiment, the subscriber may form a priority list of clusters and sends back the SINR information in a descending order of priority.



Typically, an index to the SINR level, instead of the SINR itself is sufficient to indicate the appropriate coding/modulation for the cluster. For example, a 3-bit field can be used for SINR indexing to indicate 8 different rates of adaptive coding/modulation.



An Exemplary Base Station



The base station assigns desirable clusters to the subscriber making the request. In one embodiment, the availability of the cluster for allocation to a subscriber depends on the total traffic load on the cluster. Therefore, the base station selects the clusters not only with high SINR, but also with low traffic load.



FIG. 13 is a block diagram of one embodiment of a base station. Referring to FIG. 13, cluster allocation and load scheduling controller 1301 (cluster allocator) collects all the necessary information, including the downlink/uplink SINR of clusters specified for each subscriber (e.g., via SINR/rate indices signals 1313 received from OFDM transceiver 1305) and user data, queue fullness/traffic load (e.g., via user data buffer information 1311 from multi-user data buffer 1302). Using this information, controller 1301 makes the decision on cluster allocation and load scheduling for each user, and stores the decision information in a memory (not shown). Controller 1301 informs the subscribers about the decisions through control signal channels (e.g., control signal/cluster allocation 1312 via OFDM transceiver 1305). Controller 1301 updates the decisions during retraining.



In one embodiment, controller 1301 also performs admission control to user access since it knows the traffic load of the system. This may be performed by controlling user data buffers 1302 using admission control signals 1310.



The packet data of User 1.about.N are stored in the user data buffers 1302. For downlink, with the control of controller 1301, multiplexer 1303 loads the user data to cluster data buffers (for Cluster 1.about.M) waiting to be transmitted. For the uplink, multiplexer 1303 sends the data in the cluster buffers to the corresponding user buffers. Cluster buffer 1304 stores the signal to be transmitted through OFDM transceiver 1305 (for downlink) and the signal received from transceiver 1305. In one embodiment, each user might occupy multiple clusters and each cluster might be shared by multiple users (in a time-division-multiplexing fashion).



Group-Based Cluster Allocation



In another embodiment, for the downlink, the clusters are partitioned into groups. Each group can include multiple clusters. FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary partitioning. Referring to FIG. 6, groups 1-4 are shown with arrows pointing to clusters that are in each group as a result of the partitioning. In one embodiment, the clusters within each group are spaced far apart over the entire bandwidth. In one embodiment, the clusters within each group are spaced apart farther than the channel coherence bandwidth, i.e. the bandwidth within which the channel response remains roughly the same. A typical value of coherence bandwidth is 100 kHz for many cellular systems. This improves frequency diversity within each group and increases the probability that at least some of the clusters within a group can provide high SINR. The clusters may be allocated in groups.



Goals of group-based cluster allocation include reducing the data bits for cluster indexing, thereby reducing the bandwidth requirements of the feedback channel (information) and control channel (information) for cluster allocation. Group-based cluster allocation may also be used to reduce inter-cell interference.



After receiving the pilot signal from the base station, a subscriber sends back the channel information on one or more cluster groups, simultaneously or sequentially. In one embodiment, only the information on some of the groups is sent back to the base station. Many criteria can be used to choose and order the groups, based on the channel information, the inter-cell interference levels, and the intra-cell traffic load on each cluster.



In one embodiment, a subscriber first selects the group with the best overall performance and then feedbacks the SINR information for the clusters in that group. The subscriber may order the groups based on their number of clusters for which the SINR is higher than a predefined threshold. By transmitting the SINR of all the clusters in the group sequentially, only the group index, instead of all the cluster indices, needs to be transmitted. Thus, the feedback for each group generally contains two types of information: the group index and the SINR value of each cluster within the group. FIG. 7 illustrates an exemplary format for indicating a group-based cluster allocation. Referring to FIG. 7, a group ID, ID1, is followed by the SINR values for each of the clusters in the group. This can significantly reduce the feedback overhead.



Upon receiving the feedback information from the subscriber, the cluster allocator at the base station selects multiple clusters from one or more groups, if available, and then assigns the clusters to the subscriber. This selection may be performed by an allocation in a media access control portion of the base station.



Furthermore, in a multi-cell environment, groups can have different priorities associated with different cells. In one embodiment, the subscriber's selection of a group is biased by the group priority, which means that certain subscribers have higher priorities on the usage of some groups than the other subscribers.



In one embodiment, there is no fixed association between one subscriber and one cluster group; however, in an alternative embodiment there may be such a fixed association. In an implementation having a fixed association between a subscriber and one or more cluster groups, the group index in the feedback information can be omitted, because this information is known to both subscriber and base station by default.



In another embodiment, the pilot signal sent from the base station to the subscriber also indicates the availability of each cluster, e.g., the pilot signal shows which clusters have already been allocated for other subscribers and which clusters are available for new allocations. For example, the base station can transmit a pilot sequence 1111 1111 on the subcarriers of a cluster to indicate that the cluster is available, and 1111-1-1-1-1 to indicate the cluster is not available. At the receiver, the subscriber first distinguishes the two sequences using the signal processing methods which are well known in the art, e.g., the correlation methods, and then estimates the channel and interference level.



With the combination of this information and the channel characteristics obtained by the subscriber, the subscriber can prioritize the groups to achieve both high SINR and good load balancing.



In one embodiment, the subscriber protects the feedback information by using error correcting codes. In one embodiment, the SINR information in the feedback is first compressed using source coding techniques, e.g., differential encoding, and then encoded by the channel codes.



FIG. 8 shows one embodiment of a frequency reuse pattern for an exemplary cellular set up. Each cell has hexagonal structure with six sectors using directional antennas at the base stations. Between the cells, the frequency reuse factor is one. Within each cell, the frequency reuse factor is 2 where the sectors use two frequencies alternatively. As shown in FIG. 8, each shaded sector uses half of the available OFDMA clusters and each unshaded sector uses the other half of the clusters. Without loss of generality, the clusters used by the shaded sectors are referred to herein as odd clusters and those used by the unshaded sectors are referred to herein as even clusters.



Consider the downlink signaling with omni-directional antennas at the subscribers. From FIG. 8, it is clear that for the downlink in the shaded sectors, Cell A interferes with Cell B, which in turn interferes with Cell C, which in turn interferes with Cell A, namely, A->B->C->A. For the unshaded sectors, Cell A interferes with Cell C, which in turn interferes with Cell B, which in turn interferes with Cell A, namely, A->C->B->A.



Sector A1 receives interference from Sector C1, but its transmission interferes with Sector B1. Namely, its interference source and the victims with which it interferes are not the same. This might cause a stability problem in a distributed cluster-allocation system using interference avoidance: if a frequency cluster is assigned in Sector B1 but not in Sector C1, the cluster may be assigned in A1 because it may be seen as clean in A1. However, the assignment of this cluster A1 can cause interference problem to the existing assignment in B1.



In one embodiment, different cluster groups are assigned different priorities for use in different cells to alleviate the aforementioned problem when the traffic load is progressively added to a sector. The priority orders are jointly designed such that a cluster can be selectively assigned to avoid interference from its interference source, while reducing, and potentially minimizing, the probability of causing interference problem to existing assignments in other cells.



Using the aforementioned example, the odd clusters (used by the shaded sectors) are partitioned into 3 groups: Group 1, 2, 3. The priority orders are listed in Table 2.



TABLE-US-00002 TABLE 2 Priority ordering for the downlink of the shaded sectors. Priority Ordering Cell A Cell B Cell C 1 Group 1 Group 3 Group 2 2 Group 2 Group 1 Group 3 3 Group 3 Group 2 Group 1



Consider Sector A1. First, the clusters in Group 1 are selectively assigned. If there are still more subscribers demanding clusters, the clusters in Group 2 are selectively assigned to subscribers, depending on the measured SINR (avoiding the clusters receiving strong interference from Sector C1). Note that the newly assigned clusters from Group 2 to Sector A1 shall not cause interference problem in Sector B1, unless the load in Sector B1 is so heavy that the clusters in both Group 3 and 1 are used up and the clusters in Group 2 are also used. Table 3 shows the cluster usage when less than 2/3 of all the available clusters are used in Sector A1, B1, and C1.



TABLE-US-00003 TABLE 3 Cluster usage for the downlink of the shaded sectors with less than 2/3 of the full load. Cluster Usage Cell A Cell B Cell C 1 Group 1 Group 3 Group 2 2 Group 2 Group 1 Group 3 3



Table 4 shows the priority orders for the unshaded sectors, which are different from those for the shaded sectors, since the interfering relationship is reversed.



TABLE-US-00004 TABLE 4 Priority ordering for the downlink of the unshaded sectors. Priority Ordering Cell A Cell B Cell C 1 Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 2 Group 2 Group 3 Group 1 3 Group 3 Group 1 Group 2



Intelligent Switching between Coherence and Diversity Clusters



In one embodiment, there are two categories of clusters: coherence clusters, containing multiple subcarriers close to each other and diversity clusters, containing multiple subcarriers with at least some of the subcarriers spread far apart over the spectrum. The closeness of the multiple subcarriers in coherence clusters is preferably within the channel coherence bandwidth, i.e. the bandwidth within which the channel response remains roughly the same, which is typically within 100 kHz for many cellular systems. On the other hand, the spread of subcarriers in diversity clusters is preferably larger than the channel coherence bandwidth, typically within 100 kHz for many cellular systems. Of course, the larger the spread, the better the diversity. Therefore, a general goal in such cases is to maximize the spread.



FIG. 9 illustrates exemplary cluster formats for coherence clusters and diversity clusters for Cells A-C. Referring to FIG. 9, for cells A-C, the labeling of frequencies (subcarriers) indicates whether the frequencies are part of coherence or diversity clusters. For example, those frequencies labeled 1-8 are diversity clusters and those labeled 9-16 are coherence clusters. For example, all frequencies labeled 1 in a cell are part of one diversity cluster, all frequencies labeled 2 in a cell are part of another diversity cluster, etc., while the group of frequencies labeled 9 are one coherence cluster, the group of frequencies labeled 10 are another coherence cluster, etc. The diversity clusters can be configured differently for different cells to reduce the effect of inter-cell interference through interference averaging.



FIG. 9 shows example cluster configurations for three neighboring cells. The interference from a particular cluster in one cell are distributed to many clusters in other cells, e.g., the interference from Cluster 1 in Cell A are distributed to Cluster 1, 8, 7, 6 in Cell B. This significantly reduces the interference power to any particular cluster in Cell B. Likewise, the interference to any particular cluster in one cell comes from many different clusters in other cells. Since not all cluster are strong interferers, diversity clusters, with channel coding across its subcarriers, provide interference diversity gain. Therefore, it is advantageous to assign diversity clusters to subscribers that are close (e.g., within the coherent bandwidth) to the cell boundaries and are more subject to inter-cell interference.



Since the subcarriers in a coherence cluster are consecutive or close (e.g., within the coherent bandwidth) to each other, they are likely within the coherent bandwidth of the channel fading. Therefore, the channel gain of a coherence cluster can vary significantly and cluster selection can greatly improve the performance. On the other hand, the average channel gain of a diversity cluster has less of a degree of variation due to the inherent frequency diversity among the multiple subcarriers spread over the spectrum. With channel coding across the subcarriers within the cluster, diversity clusters are more robust to cluster mis-selection (by the nature of diversification itself), while yielding possibly less gain from cluster selection. Channel coding across the subcarriers means that each codeword contains bits transmitted from multiple subcarriers, and more specifically, the difference bits between codewords (error vector) are distributed among multiple subcarriers.



More frequency diversity can be obtained through subcarrier hopping over time in which a subscriber occupies a set of subcarriers at one time slot and another different set of subcarriers at a different time slot. One coding unit (frame) contains multiple such time slots and the transmitted bits are encoded across the entire frame.



FIG. 10 illustrates diversity cluster with subcarrier hopping. Referring to FIG. 10, there are four diversity clusters in each of cells A and B shown, with each subcarrier in individual diversity clusters having the same label (1, 2, 3, or 4). There are four separate time slots shown and during each of the time slots, the subcarriers for each of the diversity clusters change. For example, in cell A, subcarrier 1 is part of diversity cluster 1 during time slot 1, is part of diversity cluster 2 during time slot 2, is part of diversity cluster 3 during time slot 3, and is part of diversity cluster 4 during time slot 4. Thus, more interference diversity can be obtained through subcarrier hopping over time, with further interference diversity achieved by using different hopping patterns for different cells, as shown in FIG. 10.



The manner in which the subscriber changes the subcarriers (hopping sequences) can be different for different cells in order to achieve better interference averaging through coding.



For static subscribers, such as in fixed wireless access, the channels change very little over time. Selective cluster allocation using the coherence clusters achieves good performance. On the other hand, for mobile subscribers, the channel time variance (the variance due to changes in the channel over time) can be very large. A high-gain cluster at one time can be in deep fade at another. Therefore, cluster allocation needs to be updated at a rapid rate, causing significant control overhead. In this case, diversity clusters can be used to provide extra robustness and to alleviate the overhead of frequent cluster reallocation. In one embodiment, cluster allocation is performed faster than the channel changing rate, which is often measured by the channel Doppler rate (in Hz), i.e. how many cycles the channel changes per second where the channel is completely different after one cycle. Note that selective cluster allocation can be performed on both coherence and diversity clusters.



In one embodiment, for cells containing mixed mobile and fixed subscribers, a channel/interference variation detector can be implemented at either the subscriber or the base station, or both. Using the detection results, the subscriber and the base station intelligently selects diversity clusters to mobile subscribers or fixed subscribers at cell boundaries, and coherence clusters to fixed subscribers close to the base station. The channel/interference variation detector measures the channel (SINR) variation from time to time for each cluster. For example, in one embodiment, the channel/interference detector measures the power difference between pilot symbols for each cluster and averages the difference over a moving window (e.g., 4 time slots). A large difference indicates that channel/interference changes frequently and subcarrier allocation may be not reliable. In such a case, diversity clusters are more desirable for the subscriber.



FIG. 11 is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a process for intelligent selection between diversity clusters and coherence clusters depending on subscribers mobility. The process is performed by processing logic that may comprise hardware (e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), software (such as that which runs on, for example, a general purpose computer system or dedicated machine), or a combination of both.



Referring to FIG. 11, processing logic in the base station performs channel/interference variation detection (processing block 1101). Processing logic then tests whether the results of the channel/interference variation detection indicate that the user is mobile or in a fixed position close to the edge of the cell (processing block 1102). If the user is not mobile or is not in a fixed position close to the edge of the cell, processing transitions to processing block 1103 where processing logic in the base station selects coherence clusters; otherwise, processing transitions to processing block 1104 in which processing logic in the base station selects diversity clusters.



The selection can be updated and intelligently switched during retraining.



The ratio/allocation of the numbers of coherence and diversity clusters in a cell depends on the ratio of the population of mobile and fixed subscribers. When the population changes as the system evolves, the allocation of coherence and diversity clusters can be reconfigured to accommodate the new system needs. FIG. 12 illustrates a reconfiguration of cluster classification which can support more mobile subscribers than that in FIG. 9.



Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means, methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention, processes, machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes, machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps.

PatentNumber=7944851,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



1. Field of the Invention



The systems and methods of this invention generally relate to communication systems. In particular, the systems and methods of this invention relate to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) communication systems, methods and protocols.



2. Description of Related Art



The IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards for wireless LANs, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, herein after referred to as 803.11a/g, specify wireless local area network communication systems in the 5 GHz and 2.4 GHz bands. These standards specify the use of OFDM as the modulation method used for communication. OFDM is a multicarrier modulation scheme that performs well in wireless communication channels. The 802.11a/g standards provide data rates of 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbps. Different data rates are achieved by transmitting different, but constant, numbers of bits on all carriers in the multicarrier system and by operating at different coding rates. Table 1 below illustrates the coding rate and bits per subcarrier for each data rate for an exemplary 802.11a/g transceiver.



TABLE-US-00001 TABLE 1 DATARATE Bits per Subcarrier (Mbps) Coding Rate (R) (N_BPSC) 6 1/2 1 9 3/4 1 12 1/2 2 18 3/4 2 24 1/2 4 36 3/4 4 48 2/3 6 54 3/4 6



In order to determine the appropriate transmission data rate, the 802.11a/g transmitter uses a trial and error method of transmitting at various data rates, starting with, for example, the highest or last successful transmission rate, and waits for a positive acknowledgement indication from the receiver that the packet was successfully received. This simple positive acknowledgment indication method is used to optimize communications in conventional 802.11a based wireless systems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and methods of this invention use messages transmitted between a receiver and a transmitter to maximize the communication data rate. In particular, and in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, a multicarrier modulation system uses messages that are sent from the receiver to the transmitter to exchange optimized communication parameters. The transmitter then stores these communication parameters and when transmitting to that particular receiver, the transmitter utilizes the stored parameters in an effort to maximize the data rate to that receiver. Likewise, when the receiver receives packets from that particular transmitter, the receiver can utilize the stored communication parameters for reception.



Accordingly, aspects of the invention relate to multicarrier modulation communication systems.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communication systems that transmit messages between transceivers.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to transmitting messages between a plurality of transceivers in an effort to optimize a data communication rate.



Further aspects of the invention relate to exchanging optimized communication parameters between a plurality of receivers in a multicarrier modulation system.



Additional aspects of the invention relate to exchanging communication parameters between a plurality of transceivers in a wired or wireless multicarrier modulation communications network to regulate the data rate between the transceivers.



These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in, or apparent from, the following detailed description of the embodiments.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



The embodiments of the invention will be described in detailed, with reference to the following figures, wherein:



FIG. 1 is a functional block diagram illustrating an exemplary communication system according to this invention;



FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the components of a first and a second transceiver according to this invention;



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary communication method according to this invention;



FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary extended signal field according to this invention;



FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary communication system according to this invention; and



FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary transceiver in accordance with the second exemplary embodiment of this invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION



The exemplary systems and the methods of this invention will be described in relation to a multicarrier modulation communication system. However, to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention, the following description omits well-known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized. For the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein. For example, the systems and methods of this invention can generally be applied to any type of communications system including wired communication systems, wireless communication systems, such as wireless LANs, power line communication systems, wired or wireless telephone line communication systems, or any combination thereof.



Furthermore, while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the communication system collocated, it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network and/or the Internet, or within a dedicated multicarrier modulation system. Thus, it should be appreciated that the components of the communication system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network, such as a telecommunications network. It will be appreciated from the following description, and for reasons of computational efficiency, that the components of the communications system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system.



Furthermore, it should be appreciated that the various links connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links, or any combination thereof, or any other known or later developed element(s) that is capable of supplying and/or communicating information to and from the connected elements. Additionally, the term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware, software, or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element.



Additionally, while this invention will be described in the relation to multicarrier modulation systems, the systems and methods of this invention can be applied to any communication system or transport protocol for transmitting information.



FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary communication system 1. Communication system 1 comprises one or more stations 10 and an access point (AP) 20. This exemplary embodiment illustrates a wireless LAN where a plurality of stations 10 communication with the access point 20. In particular, in its exemplary wireless LAN, multiple stations 10 share a common communication medium. One possible configuration includes an access point 20 that is used to communicate between the stations 10 (BSS). The access point 20 provides the local relay functionality between the stations 10 and to, for example, other wired and/or wireless networks (not shown). Therefore, when station 1 communicates with station 2, the communication, e.g., a packet, is sent from station 1 to the access point 20, and then from the access point 20 to station 2. For this reason, in most cases a station 10 is only transmitting packets to the access point 20 and receiving packets from the access point 20. The access point 20 on the other hand, must communicate with all the stations 10 in the network.



Another possible configuration does not rely on an access point 20, but instead communications take place directly between the stations 10 (IBSS) in the network illustrated by the dashed lines in FIG. 1. In this embodiment, where communications occur directly between the stations 10, there are no relay functions served by the access point 20.



In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the wireless network relies on communicating parameters between a plurality of transceivers and in particular from a receiver to a transmitter. These parameters are stored at the transmitter and are used for subsequent transmission of packets to the receiver the parameters were received from. Thus, the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well whether the network is configured to have an access point 20, or not, as each station, including the access point, if used, maintains tables comprising the communication parameters.



Several different types of communication parameters can be sent from the receiver to the transmitter to optimize communication to, for example, increase or decrease the data rate. In general, any parameter that can modify performance can be included in the message. The following examples are the more common types of communication parameters that can be exchanged between the receiver and the transmitter.



The Bit Allocation Table (BAT)--the bit allocation table in multicarrier modulation systems specify the number of bits modulated on each carrier, which are also referred to as subchannels, subcarriers, tones or bins, in a multicarrier modulation system. The 802.11a/g transceivers use the same number of bits on all subchannels, which is the simplest type of bit allocation table. Since wireless communications experience multipath, the communications channel is not flat in frequency, which means that different subcarriers will have different signal to noise ratios (SNRs). Therefore, in order to achieve a constant bit error rate (BER) on all carriers, a bit allocation table is used so that carriers with a higher SNR modulate more bits than carriers with a lower SNR. This process is often referred to as "bit loading." Bit loading and the use of a bit allocation table has been used in ADSL multicarrier communication systems for years. For example, ITU standards G.992.1 and G.992.2, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are international ADSL standards that specify communication using bit loading and bit allocation tables. Bit loading also enables using constellation sizes much higher than 64 QAM (6 bit) which is the maximum constellation size of standard 802.11a/g systems. Bit loading constellations that modulate up to 15 bits, or more, can be used, if supported by the channel, thereby achieving significant data rate improvements.



Coded modulation parameters--systems that use coded modulation techniques, such as trellis coded modulation and turbo coded modulation, achieve much higher coding advantages than systems that do not combine modulation and forward error correction encoding. However, coded modulation schemes do not encode all information bits and therefore coded modulation must be combined with bit loading in multipath channels in order to achieve the coding gain benefits.



Variable cyclic prefix length--the cyclic prefix (CP) is used in multicarrier systems to combat multipath. In general, as long as the impulse response of the channel is less than the CP length, there will be no inter-symbol interference (ISI) or inter-channel (ICI) interference due to the channel multipath. However, since the CP is a redundant cyclic extension added to every communication symbol, the CP also results in a data rate loss. The 802.11a/g standards use a fixed CP with a length of 0.8 microseconds, which is 20% of the symbol length. Therefore, the addition of the CP results in a 20% data rate reduction. This is a good tradeoff if the channel is approximately the same length as a CP. However, if the channel is much shorter, e.g., only 0.1 microseconds, then it makes sense to decrease the CP length to 0.1 microseconds in order to get a 19% data rate improvement. Likewise, if the channel is much longer than 0.8 microseconds, the CP should be extended to match the length of the channel because significant levels of ISI and ICI will probably greatly reduce the achievable data rate.



Variable pilot tone allocation--standard 802.11a/g receivers use four fixed pilot tones that are spread across the transmission frequency band. This is necessary in 802.11a/g systems since the transmitter does not know which portions of the frequency bands are in deep nulls due to multipath. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the receiver can communicate to the transmitter which carrier should be used for pilot tones. Since the receiver can determine which carriers have a high SNR, the receiver can instruct the transmitter to place pilot tones on those high SNR carriers. In fact, in many cases, a single high SNR carrier is sufficient to be used for all timing recovery requirements thereby allowing the system to transmit data on the three carriers that the 802.11a/g systems use for pilot tones. This also provides a data rate increase when compared to standard 802.11a/g systems.



Alternatively, the communication system may not have any carriers dedicated as pilot tones, i.e., all carriers that are modulated are modulated with information bits. In this case, a carrier that carries information bits may be used to perform "decision-directed" timing recovery algorithms. For example, a carrier that is used for this type of decision-directed algorithm will often carry fewer bits than actually possible at the specified BER in order to provide a reference signal with a high SNR.



Fine gains per carrier--Fine gains are used in ADSL standards such as G.992.1 to equalize the BER across all the carriers when bit loading is used. Fine gains are small adjustments in the transmit power level that enable a subchannel to achieve the BER required by the system based on the specific measure of SNR.



Throughout the following discussion, exemplary embodiments of this invention will be directed toward the bit allocation tables (BATs) as the primary optimized communication parameter that is being exchanged between the stations. This is done because the use of BATs is one of the most effective ways to achieve optimized communication and to modify data rates. However, it is to be appreciated that other communication parameters including, but not limited to, fine gains, trellis coded modulation, pilot tone location, variable cyclic prefix length, and the like, can also be exchanged, with or without BATs, between stations to realize a change in data rate.



To implement a change in data rates, a message containing the communication parameters is sent from a receiver to a transmitter. These communication parameters can be communicated in a plurality of ways. For example, the communication parameters can be sent to the transmitter as part of a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, after receiving the positive acknowledgment packet, the transmitter would use the communication parameters contained in the positive acknowledgment packet for the transmission of subsequent packets. The communication parameters could also be sent, for example, as part of a management or data frame that is intended to communicate information between the transceivers. For example, the communication parameters could be sent as part of an extended header field of any packet sent between the transceivers.



The exemplary embodiment of the protocol used for exchanging communication parameters in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 1 and 2. In particular, FIG. 1 illustrates an exemplary network 1, such as a wireless network. The network 1 comprises a plurality of stations 10 interconnected by a plurality of links and an access point 20. FIG. 2 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the components associated with a first and a second transceiver, e.g., the stations 10 or the access point 20. In particular, the first transceiver 100 comprises a message determination module 110, a communication parameter determination module 120, a packet determination module 130, a transmitter 140, a receiver 150, a memory 160, and a controller 170, all connected by a link (not shown). The second transceiver 200 comprises a message determination module 210, a communication parameter determination module 220, a packet determination module 230, a transmitter 240, a receiver 250, a memory 260, and a controller 270, all connected by a link (not shown).



For ease of illustration the exemplary method used for the high rate OFDM communication systems will be discussed in relation to a first transceiver sending packets to a second transceiver. For example, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver the access point 20. Alternatively, the first transceiver could be station 2 and the second transceiver, station 1, or the like. The relevant portion of the protocol commences with the first transceiver sending a packet at one of a highest possible data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps for 802.11a/g, at the data rate of the last successful transmission, or at a known data rate.



Specifically, the packet determination module 130, in cooperation with the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170 coordinate the transmission of this first packet, i.e., before any optimized communication parameters are exchanged, and transmit the packet using standard size fixed communication parameter settings such as those specified in IEEE 802.11a/g, e.g., fixed six bits per tone on all carriers.



Next, if the second transceiver's receiver 250 successfully receives the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet again with the cooperation of the packet determination modulation 230, the transmitter 240, the memory 260 and the controller 270. This positive acknowledgment packet also comprises optimized communication parameters determined by the communication parameter determination module 220 to be used by the second transceiver 200 for subsequent reception of packets from the first transceiver 100. For example, the positive acknowledgment packet may contain a BAT with different bits per subcarrier based on, for example, the channel characteristics as measured by the second transceiver 200 and determined by the communication parameter determination module 220. Alternatively, or in addition, this acknowledgment packet may also indicate any of the optimized transmission parameters described above, e.g., which one or more carriers should be used as pilot tones as discussed above.



If the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet from the first transceiver 100, the second transceiver 200 does not return to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment packet. In this case, the first transceiver 100, again in cooperation with the packet determination module 130, the transmitter 140, the memory 160 and the controller 170, sends a packet at the next highest or another known standard data rate.



If the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment packet, the first transceiver 100, in cooperation with memory 160 stores the optimized communication parameters. The first transceiver 100 then uses the stored communication parameters for transmission of subsequent packets to the second transceiver 200. The use of the optimized communication parameters is indicated in the header field of the packet sent from the first transceiver 100 to the second transceiver 200. For example, the message determination module 110 modifies the header field to indicate which optimized communication parameters are being used.



The second transceiver's receiver 250 receives the packet from the first transceiver 100 and determines which communication parameters were used based on the information in the data field of the packet. This is accomplished by, for example, decoding the header field of the packet that indicates that optimized communication parameters are being used. The packet can then be demodulated and decoded based on the information contained in the data field in association with the message determination/decoded module 210 using the optimized communication parameters that were sent from the second transceiver to the first transceiver in the previous positive acknowledgement packet.



After the second transceiver 200 receives from the first transceiver 100 the packet which has the header field specifying which optimize communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 sends a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. This positive acknowledgment may contain the same parameters as used for the last successful received packet as an indication to the second transceiver 200 to continue transmitting with the stored optimized communication parameters. Equivalently, the positive acknowledgment may be just a basic acknowledgment packet, as in conventional 802.11a/g systems, to indicate that the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver and communication should continue using the same optimized communication parameters. In the event that optimized communication parameters accompany every positive acknowledgement during an extended communication session, this mechanism effectively tracks



Alternatively, the second transceiver 200 may send a new, second set of optimized communication parameters in the acknowledgment message. These new parameters could, for example, request a change in data rate, such as a higher data rate. In this case, the first transceiver 100 could start using the second set of optimized communication parameters for transmission after receiving the acknowledgment packet.



In the case where the second transceiver 200 does not successfully receive the packet transmitted by the first transceiver 100 that has the modified header field specifying which communication parameters were used, the second transceiver 200 will not send a positive acknowledgment back to the first transceiver 100. In this case, the first transceiver 100 would determine that the optimized communication parameters are no longer valid and will start the protocol all over again by going back to the first step were the first transceiver 100 will commence communication at a known data rate, such as the highest data rate, e.g., 54 Mbps in 802.11a/g systems, using the fixed/standard communication parameters.



In the case were the first transceiver 100 receives the positive acknowledgment from the second transceiver 200 after transmitting a packet using the first set of optimized parameters, and this positive acknowledgment contains a new, second set of optimized parameters, these new parameters should be used for subsequent transmission of packets. However, if the second transceiver 200 does not receive a positive acknowledgment packet after sending a packet using the second set of optimize parameters, then the second transceiver 200 reverts back to the first step of the protocol were a packet is sent at a known e.g., next highest data. However, in this case, the first transceiver may start by transmitting using the first set of optimized communication parameters or by transmitting at a data rate using a fixed/standard communication parameter, e.g., 54 Mbps in the 802.11a/g standard.



Alternatively, or further in addition, the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 may periodically send "reference" or "training" packets that can be used by the receiver portion of the transceiver in conjunction with the communication parameter determination module to determine the optimized transmission parameters. For example, these training packets can be packets that contain signals that are known to the transceivers in advance. For example, the training packets can be non-information carrying packets that are sent during times when there is no data to be sent between the stations and the network. Since these packets are predefined and known to the receiver prior to reception, the receivers can use them to accurately measure the effects of the channel, such as the multipath profile, the SNR per carrier, or the like. These training packets can also be used to train receiver equalizers that are used to equalize, for example, the wireless channel and/or receiver filters and/or transmitter filters.



In conventional wireless LAN systems, every packet contains a header field that indicates the data rate used for transmitting the data field of the packet. The header field is transmitted using a fixed modulation/encoding scheme, such as in the 802.11a/g standard, and therefore can be demodulated by all stations. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header field will also indicate whether optimized communication parameters were used for transmitting the data field in the packet. This could be done in several ways. For example, the header field could contain the indication of the data rate as in 802.11a/g. Alternatively, the header field could contain a bit field that indicates whether the optimized communication parameters are to be used. This bit field could be a single bit that indicates either to use the last exchanged optimized communication parameters, or one of the standard fixed communication parameters. Alternatively, the bit field could be a plurality of bits indicating one of a plurality of sets of optimized communication parameters.



In the example of a network with a access point 20, each station transmitter would store optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. These optimized parameters would be generated by the access point 20 receiver and sent to the station(s) as described above. Obviously, since each station 10 is in a different location, and could possibly move, each station transmitter would probably have different optimized parameters to be used when sending packets to the access point 20. The access point 20 must also store these optimized parameters to be used by the access point 20 receiver when receiving packets from the various stations 10. For each station 10, the access point 20 may have a different set of optimize parameters. Since the access point 20 receives packets from all stations, the access point 20 must be able to determine the parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. The access point 20 can use the packet header to determine whether the optimized parameters have been used, but since the access point 20 does not know which station actually sent the packet, the access point 20 may not be able to determine the correct parameters based on the header alone.



Accordingly, and in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of this invention, the header also includes a bit field that indicates which station sent the packet. In this case, the access point 20 would use that information to determine which set of parameters should be used. Alternatively, the access point 20 may use other measures to determine which station sent the packet. For example, the access point 20 could use the power of the received signal, the channel estimate based on frequency equalizer taps, carrier offset values, or the like.



In the example of a network, such as a wireless LAN, with an access point 20, the access point transmitter would store the optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to a specific station 10. These optimized communication parameters would be generated by the station receiver and sent to the access point 20 as described above. Obviously, since each station is in a different location, the access point 20 could have a plurality of sets of different optimized communication parameters to be used when sending packets to the different stations 10. Each station 10 would then also store the optimize communication parameters corresponding to that station to be used by the station receiver when receiving packets from the access point 20. Each station 10 should also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the information in the packet header, i.e., SIGNAL field. Therefore, each station 10 uses the packet header to determine whether the optimized communication parameters have been used. Unlike the access point receiver, each station receiver is intended to receive packets only from the access point 20 and therefore a station 10 may be able to determine the communication parameters based on the header alone.



Since all stations will receive packets from the access point 20, each station must also be able to determine the communication parameters used for the data field based on the preamble and the packet header, i.e., the SIGNAL field. Obviously, if the packet is not intended for a particular station receiver, the receiver may use the incorrect optimized communication parameters to receive a packet. This is actually not a problem since the packet was not intended for that receiver in the first place. However, since the protocol requires transmitters to defer to communications already in progress, every station must be able to determine various protocol counters based on the packet duration. The header must provide a way to determine the packet duration even if use of the wrong communication parameters does not permit the receiver to correctly decode the message.



As discussed above, once the receiving transceiver determines the optimized transmission parameters, the receiving transceiver needs to send this information to the transmitting transceiver to be used for subsequent communication between the two devices. Furthermore, as discuss above, the optimized transmission information can be sent as part of an acknowledgment packet. Alternatively, or in addition, the optimized transmission parameters can be exchanged as part of a management frame or regular information carrying frame on a periodic or, for example, triggered basis. In either case, the optimized transmission parameters can be sent as part of an extended packet header field, also known as the SIGNAL field, or as part of the packet information field. In the case of an extended packet header field, the information is sent at a fixed rate and can be decoded by all systems in the network. For example, a bit in the packet header field can be used to indicate that a new set of optimized transmission parameters has been appended to an extended packet header field.



In the latter case, the information can be sent using optimized parameters for communication. Note that in this case the optimized transmission parameters that are used for transmitting the optimized transmission parameter information from the receiver to the transmitter are not the same. For example, assume that the receiver of the first transceiver 150 determines optimized transmission information for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The first transceiver's transmitter 140 sends a packet to the second transceiver's receiver 250 where the packet contains the optimized transmission parameters for transmitting packets from the second transceiver's transmitter 240 to the first transceiver's receiver 150. The packet that is sent from the first transceiver's transmitter 140 to the second transceiver's receiver 250 may be sent using a standard fixed rate, as is done in conventional 802.11a/g systems, or may be sent using optimized transmission parameters communicated between the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200. Obviously, the optimized transmission parameters used for transmission from the first transceiver 100 and the second transceiver 200 would have been exchanged earlier in the communications session.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating a general exemplary method of exchanging communication parameters according to this invention. Specifically, control begins in step S100 and continues to step S110. In step S110, a first transceiver (designated T1) determines and sends a packet that is at least one of a known, highest, last successful or changed rate to a second transceiver (designated T2). Next, in step S120, a determination is made whether the packet was successfully received at the second transceiver. If the packet was not successfully received, control jumps to step S130. Otherwise, control continues to step S140.



In step S130, the communication parameters specifying the data rate are incremented/decremented as appropriate. Control then continues back to step S110.



In step S140, the second transceiver returns to the first transceiver a positive acknowledgment that may or may not comprise optimized communication parameters. If the positive acknowledgement contains optimized communication parameters, the second transceiver stores these parameters. Next, in step S150, the first transceiver receives the acknowledgment. Then, in step S160, the first transceiver stores the optimized communication parameters if the positive acknowledgment returned from the second transceiver contains communication parameters. Control then continues to step S170.



In step S170, the first transceiver determines a header field. Next, in step S180, the first transceiver commences communication using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S190, a determination is made whether the second transceiver received the packet. If the packet was received, control continues to step S200. Otherwise, control jumps to step S130.



In step S200, the second transceiver decodes the header field and determines the communication parameters that were used. Next, in step S210, the second transceiver demodulates and decodes the data field using the stored optimized communication parameters. Then, in step S220, the second transceiver determines the acknowledgment to return to the first transceiver. Control then continues to step S230.



In step S230, the second transceiver sends the acknowledgment to the first transceiver. This message may or may not contain optimized communication parameters. Control then continues to step S240 where the control sequence ends.



The basic concepts discussed above can also be extended to legacy systems. In the following discussion, stations that only implement the current 802.11a/g standard will be referred to as legacy stations. Stations that are enabled with the methods of this invention to provide high data rate communications with optimized communication parameters will be referred to as extended rate (ER) stations. The method and protocols that enable exchanging, transmitting and receiving using these optimized communication parameters are referred to as extended rate systems and protocols. In this exemplary embodiment, an extended rate station also supports the current 802.11a/g standard.



For example, FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary communication system 500 that comprises a plurality of extended rate stations 510, 520, one or more legacy stations 530 and, for example, an access point 540.



When operating in an environment with legacy stations 530 and extended rate stations 510, 520 there are two main interoperability requirements to ensure network stability. First, a legacy station 530 must be able to receive the ER packet header (SIGNAL field) and use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will guarantee that the legacy station 530 will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



Secondly, an extended rate station 510, 520 must be able to determine the transmission parameters e.g., the bit allocation table, based on an extended rate packet header if the packet is intended for that station. In addition, an extended rate station that was not intended to receive the packet must also use the SIGNAL field parameters to correctly determine the packet duration, i.e., the time required for packet transmission. This will ensure that the extended rate station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so that accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



In an effort to ensure the two above requirements are met, FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary modified packet header using an extended signal field. In this illustrative 802.11a example, the SIGNAL field is extended. The first part of the extended SIGNAL field has a structure identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field header. The first symbol of the extended SIGNAL field is modulated according to the SIGNAL modulation encoding parameters as specified in IEEE 802.11a for the standard SIGNAL field, i.e., 6 Mbps BPSK, code rate=1/2. Therefore, a legacy station can correctly receive the signal field bits from the first part of the extended SIGNAL field.



The second part of the extended signal field in the next symbol contains the transmitter (TX) and receiver (RX) station identifiers. These extended signal field bits are also modulated using the 802.11a 6 Mbps, code rate=1/2 modulation method. In FIG. 4, these extended signal field bits are sent in the second symbol of the extended signal field header that corresponds to the data symbol number one in a standard 802.11a system.



Since there are both legacy and extended rate stations in the exemplary communication system 500 illustrated in FIG. 5, an extended rate station needs to be able to determine and identify when a received packet contains an extended signal field header, which is contained in two symbols, as opposed to a standard 802.11a header, which contained in only one symbol. This can be accomplished by setting a bit in the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field. This bit will be referred to as the ER-enable bit. As an example, the 802.11a reserved bit between the rate field and the length field can be used as the ER-enable bit. For example, when this reserved bit (R) is set to 1, this indicates that an extended rate header is being used. When the reserved bit (R) is set to 0, this indicates that a standard 802.11a header is being used.



Again with reference to FIG. 5, two ER stations 510 and 520 are illustrated along with a legacy station 530 and an extended rate access point 540. The various links in FIG. 5 represent, for example, the communication paths of an extended rate packet where the ER-enable bit (R) is flagged in the reserved bit R position and the TX/RX STA ID (Transmitter/Receiver Station Identifier) is present in the extended SIGNAL field.



The exemplary communications that occur between the various stations will be discussed in relation to FIGS. 5 and 6. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates the exemplary components that could be present in a station illustrated in FIG. 5. In particular, the station 600 comprises a message determination module 610, a communication parameter determination module 620, a packet determination module 630, an ER detection module 640, a station ID decoder/encoder 650, a receiver 660, a transmitter 670, a memory 680 and a controller 690. Many of the components illustrated in the station 600 are comparable to those seen in the first transceiver 100 and second transceiver 200. Accordingly, the functions of those components will not be re-discussed in association with this embodiment of the invention.



Communication path 1: Transmission of packets from the access point 540 to a ER capable station, such as ER station 510.



The access point 540 forwards to the ER station 510 a packet. The ER station 510 detects the ER-enable bit with the cooperation of the ER detection module 640 and determines that the packet is an ER packet.



Next, the station ID decoder/encoder 650 decodes the RX STA ID bits and the extended header field to determine if the received packet is intended for this particular station. The ER station 510 also decodes the TX STA ID in the extended rate header with the cooperation of the station ID decoder/encoder 650 and determines if this packet is coming from the access point 540. Based on this information, the receiving extended rate station 510 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving the packets from the access point 540. The extended rate station 510 uses the optimize parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., the data field, of the packet. Naturally, the RX station had sent these optimized communication parameters to the AP earlier in the session.



Communication Path 2: Another ER-capable station, e.g., station 520, accidentally receives a packet from the access point (AP) 540.



The station 520, in cooperation with the ER detection module 640, detects the ER-enable bit in the packet sent from the access point 540, and determines that the packet is an ER packet and, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field and determines that the received packet is not intended for this particular station. The station 520 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field, as discussed below.



Since the station 520 determines that the received packet is not intended for itself, the station 520 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when a packet is received, a station can detect very early whether it is the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet if it is not. This will, for example, save power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power required to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore, for example, the station may go into a low power mode.



Communication Path 3: The legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from the access point (AP) 540.



Legacy stations in general are not aware of ER packet headers. Therefore, the legacy station 530 will correctly decode the first part of the ER packet which is contained in the first symbol of the header field and is identical to the standard 802.11a SIGNAL field, except for the ER-enable bit which the legacy station 530 should ignore since it is reserved.



The legacy station 530 sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE/LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below allowing correct legacy operation of the 802.11a medium occupancy algorithms. Using the spoofed RATE and LENGTH information, the legacy station 530 will incorrectly demodulate the data symbols, since the station does not know the optimized communication parameters, until eventually a CRC error will cause the packet to be ignored.



Communication Path 4: Transmission of packets from an ER-capable station 510 to an access point (AP) 540.



The access point (AP) 540 detects the ER-enable bit, determines the received packet is an ER packet and decodes the RX STA ID bits in the extended header field to determine if the packet is intended for itself. The access point 540 also decodes the TX STA ID in the ER header and determines which station has transmitted the packet. Based on this information, the access point 540 uses the stored optimized communication parameters that are to be used when receiving packets from that particular transmitter station. The access point 540 then uses the optimized parameters to correctly decode the remainder, i.e., DATA Field, of the packet. Of course, the access point 540 had sent the optimized communication parameters to the transmitter station earlier in the communications session.



Communication Path 5: Another ER-capable station 520 accidentally receives a packet originating from ER station 510.



The station 510 detects the ER-enable bit, with the cooperation of the ER detection module, determines this is an ER packet and decodes, with the cooperation of the STA ID de/encoder 650, the RX ST ID bits in the extended header field to determine that the packet is not intended for itself. The station 510 then sets the NAV, and related counters, based on the "spoofed" RATE, LENGTH information contained in the SIGNAL Field as discussed below. Since the station 510 knows that this packet is not intended for itself, the station 510 does not even have to decode the packet. An additional benefit of this method is that when this happens, a station can detect very early that it is not the intended recipient of the packet and therefore the station does not need to decode the remainder of the packet. This will save, for example, power in the station since the station will not consume the processing power to decode the remainder of the packet and therefore the station may, for example, go into the low power mode.



Communication Path 6: Legacy station 530 accidentally receives a packet originating from an ER-enabled station 510.



This scenario produces the same results as illustrated in relation to communication path 3.



"Spoofing" the RATE and LENGTH Field.



When a legacy station receives an ER packet, such as in communication paths 3 and 6, the legacy station must be able to determine the duration of the packet, i.e., the time required for packet transmission, based on the standard 802.11a header contained in the first symbol of the ER packet header, which every station can correctly decode. Thus, for the legacy station, R1-R4 bits, which do not have any meaning to the ER-capable RX STA, must be set to one of the legitimate patterns used in the 802.11a standard, shown in Table 1. Additionally, the LENGTH field must be filled in conjunction with the RATE field in a way that the required time for packet transmission that the legacy RX STA would calculate based on the "spoofed" RATE and LENGTH parameters would coincide with the one that is needed by the ER RX STA using optimized communication parameters. This will guarantee that the legacy station will correctly set its network allocation vector (NAV) and other related counters so the accurate operation of the contention algorithm for the medium access will be maintained.



A ER-capable RX STA will also exploit the spoofed RATE, LENGTH information shown in the SIGNAL field when the packet is not intended for its reception, such as in cases 2 and 5. Once the ER-capable RX STA recognizes that the reserved bit R is turned on, the ER-capable RX STA examines the extended SIGNAL symbol and, based on the RX STA ID, determines that this packet is not intended for itself. Based on the `spoofed` RATE and LENGTH information in the SIGNAL Field, the RX STA sets the counters related with virtual carrier sense algorithm in exactly the same manner as the legacy station and may then enter the power saving mode.



As an example, the ER data rate is 108 Mbps, which is twice the maximum data rate (54 Mbps) of conventional 802.11a systems. This may be achieved by, for example, bit loading and using trellis coded modulation. A system transmitting at 108 Mbps will have 432 data bits per symbol. Therefore, transmitting a packet with, for example, 864 bytes will require 864*8/432=16 symbols. In addition, the ER protocol requires an extra symbol in the ER header, as compared to standard 802.11a systems, that contains the TX and RX Station IDs. Therefore, the transmission of an 864 byte packet requires 16+1=17 symbols at 108 Mbps. In order to allow legacy 802.11a stations to correctly determine the NAV, the RATE and LENGTH Fields of the ER header need to be set so that the legacy station will also determine that 17 symbols are needed for transmission of the packet. Therefore, for example, the RATE and LENGTH fields could be set to RATE=54 Mbps and LENGTH=459 bytes. In this case, since 54 Mbps results in 216 data bits per symbol, the legacy station would determine the packet duration to be 459*8/216=17 symbols and correctly set the NAV. Obviously other RATE and LENGTH combinations can be used from the 802.11a standard to enable the legacy station to correctly set the NAV. For example, RATE=6 Mbps and LENGTH=51 bytes would also result in a packet whose data field is 17 symbols long.



In the example described above, the extended header field only contained the RX and TX STA IDs. This implies that there is only one set of optimized parameters for each TX/RX communication. In an alternative embodiment, the extended header field also, or alternatively, contains an indication of which one of a plurality of optimized communication parameters sets is to be used for transmission and reception of a packet. These parameter sets are sent from the receiver station to the transmitter station and stored in each.



The above-described communication system can be implemented on wired or wireless telecommunications devices, such a modem, a multicarrier modem, a DSL modem, an ADSL modem, an XDSL modem, a VDSL modem, a multicarrier transceiver, wired or wireless wide/local area network system, or the like, or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device. Additionally, the systems, methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer, a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element(s), an ASIC or other integrated circuit, a digital signal processor, a hard-wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit, a programmable logic device such as PLD, PLA, FPGA, PAL, modem, transmitter/receiver, or the like. In general, any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowcharts illustrated herein can be used to implement the various communication methods according to this invention.



Furthermore, the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object-oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively, the disclosed communication system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and/or efficiency requirements of the system, the particular function, and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The communication systems, methods and protocols illustrated herein however can be readily implemented in hardware and/or software using any known or later developed systems or structures, devices and/or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and telecommunications arts.



Moreover, the disclosed methods can also be readily implemented in software, stored on an information storage media or computer-readable storage medium, such as a hard dive, memory or optical, magnet or magneto-optic disc, executed on programmed general purpose computer, a special purpose computer, a microprocessor, or the like. In these instances, the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA.RTM. or CGI script, as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation, as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system, or the like. The communication system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and/or hardware system, such as the hardware and software systems of a communications transceiver.



It is therefore apparent that there has been provided, in accordance with the present invention, systems and methods for exchanging communication parameters. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such alternatives, modifications, equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

PatentNumber=7952990,BACKGROUND



FIG. 1A illustrates a wireless communication system 130, which includes a first transceiver 100 and a second transceiver 102. The first transceiver 100 may be designated a "transmitter" because it first transmits signals to the second transceiver 102, which may be designated a "receiver." Both transmitter 100 and receiver 102 may transmit and receive wireless signals, as shown by the transmit portions 101A, 101B and receive portions 103A, 103B.



Orthogonal frequency division modulation (OFDM) is a modulation technique for communications which splits a data stream into multiple radio frequency channels, which are each sent over a "subcarrier" frequency.



In an OFDM baseband system, such as an IEEE 802.11a/g system, a transmitter 100 transmits two identical training sequences known as "preambles" to a receiver 102. The transmitter 100 sends these training sequences over two OFDM symbol durations. The transmitter 100 may send training subcarriers (also called "carriers" or "tones") for the training sequences that correspond to all data subcarriers to the receiver 102.



FIG. 1B illustrates an example of a data burst/packet 120 transmitted by the transmitter 100 to the receiver 102 in FIG. 1A. In IEEE 802.11, the packet 120 contains a preamble 121A,B in a training mode and a plurality of data symbols 122A-122C in a data mode. In IEEE 802.16a, the packet contains a preamble 124 in a training mode and a plurality of data symbols 12 6A-C in a data mode.



FIG. 1C illustrates a set of subcarriers for a preamble "P" 204 at the transmitter 100 in FIG. 1A. FIG. 1C shows how the subcarriers are transformed and transmitted to the receiver 102. A subcarrier "i" in the frequency domain contains a training symbol. The transmitter 100 performs an inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) to transform the subcarriers to one time-domain OFDM symbol. One OFDM symbol contains multiple training symbols carried over the sub-carriers. The transmitter 100 transmits the OFDM symbol across a channel. The receiver 102 receives the OFDM symbol and performs an FFT operation. The receiver 102 estimates a frequency response H.sub.i of the subcarrier i.



The receiver 102 typically uses two identical received training sequences/preambles to compute their correlation and obtain time and frequency information for frequency synchronization and channel estimation. The receiver 102 may compute channel estimation using a Least Square (LS) estimator. An estimated channel frequency response H.sub.k corresponding to a subcarrier k (k is an index for subcarriers) may be expressed as:



.times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..noteq. ##EQU00001##



where N denotes the total number of subcarriers of an OFDM symbol, Pk is the received symbol of the kth subcarrier, and P.sub.k is the corresponding training symbol for that kth subcarrier, which forms a part of a preamble. Equation (1) indicates that a channel estimate may be determined for each subcarrier k.



A preamble represents information about packets that follow the preamble. As such, preambles are overheads of a packet to be transmitted. There may be multiple preambles. Preambles reduce the throughput of a communication system. For a diversity system, such as a multiple-in-multiple-out (MIMO) system with multiple transmit and receive antennas 104, 106, channels between all pairs of the transmit and receive antennas 104, 106 should be estimated. Extra training overheads may be required.



It may be advantageous to minimize the number of preambles required to be transmitted while still obtaining satisfactory system performance. To increase system throughput and reduce the overhead of transmitting two identical training sequences over two OFDM symbol durations per packet, the IEEE 802.16a OFDM system proposes transmitting two identical training sequences using one preamble over one OFDM symbol duration. The receiver 102 uses the two identical sequences for correlation to obtain frequency information. To obtain two identical training sequences in the time domain over just one symbol duration, every other subcarrier in the frequency domain has to be set to zero, which is a known Fourier transform property.



SUMMARY



An IEEE 802.16a OFDM system, which uses two identical training sequences of one preamble over one OFDM symbol duration, may require more sophisticated channel estimation techniques at the receiver, compared to a system, such as IEEE 802.11a/g OFDM, where training sequences of two OFDM symbol durations are transmitted per packet. Sophisticated channel estimators, such as the Minimum Mean-Square Error (MMSE) and Least-Square (LS) estimators have been proposed. However, these estimators may be complex to implement because they require many multiplication operations. Since training symbols are sent for alternate subcarriers (i.e., P.sub.k=0 in equation (1) for alternate subcarriers), interpolation techniques are used to estimate the channel response of these zeroed out subcarriers.



An "upsampling" technique may interpolate the channel response. This technique, however, requires multiple Fast Fourier transforms (FFT) computations. Furthermore, since typical OFDM systems such as IEEE 802.11a/g and IEEE 802.16a have many guard subcarriers in an OFDM symbol that are set to zero, this technique may not provide optimum performance.



Other proposed approaches use various filtering techniques to compute the interpolated points of an estimated channel response. These techniques may typically require filtering and multiplication operations.



The present application relates to a relatively low-complexity channel estimation technique for OFDM systems. The technique may use only addition operations. The technique may combine (a) linear interpolation with (b) relatively low or reduced complexity adaptive filtering to achieve a desired level of performance.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



FIG. 1A illustrates a wireless communication system with a first transceiver and a second transceiver.



FIG. 1B illustrates an example of a data burst/packet transmitted by the transmitter to the receiver in FIG. 1A.



FIG. 1C illustrates a set of subcarriers for a preamble "p" at the transmitter of FIG. 1A and how the subcarriers are transformed and transmitted and how the subcarrier channels are estimated.



FIG. 2 illustrates a transmit portion of the first transceiver and a receive portion of the second transceiver in FIG. 1A.



FIG. 3 illustrates a technique of using the system of FIG. 2.



FIG. 4 shows a table of number of updates and adaptation coefficient settings to approximate an optimal Kalman filter, which may be used by the system of FIG. 2.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



FIG. 1A illustrates a wireless communication system 130 with a first transceiver 100 and a second transceiver 102. The first transceiver 100 may be designated a "transmitter" because it first transmits signals to the second transceiver 102, which may be designated a "receiver." However, both transceivers 100, 102 may transmit and receive wireless signals, as shown by the transmit portions 101A, 101B and receive portions 103A, 103B. Each transceiver 100, 102 may have one or more antennas 104, 106.



FIG. 1B illustrates an example of a data burst/packet 120 transmitted by the transmitter 100 to the receiver 102 in FIG. 1A.



The transmitter 102 may send a "preamble" to the receiver 102. A preamble is an initial set of symbols sent by a transmitter for establishing frequency synchronization and channel estimation at a receiver. A "symbol" in digital transmission is a recognizable electrical state, which is associated with a "signal element" (an electrical signal within a defined period of time). For example, a signal element in binary transmission is represented as one of two possible states or symbols: 1 or 0.



FIG. 1C illustrates a set of subcarriers for a preamble "p" at the transmitter 100 and how the subcarriers are transformed, transmitted and the subcarrier channels are estimated at the receiver 102. A subcarrier (also referred to as "carrier" or "tone") is a frequency domain unit, which may contain a data, pilot, null or training symbol (i.e., a symbol with a sequence of known transmit signals used for training at the receiver).



FIG. 2 illustrates a transmit portion 101A in the transmitter 100 and a receive portion 103B in the receiver 102 in FIG. 1A. The transmit portion 101A includes a multiplexer 206, a modulator 208, an N-IFFT (N-point Inverse Fast Fourier Transform) module 210, and a cyclic prefix insertion module 212. The multiplexer 206 receives a preamble 204 and a "data in" stream, which may be scrambled, coded and interleaved.



In an IEEE 802.16a OFDM (Orthogonal Frequency Division Modulation) system, the preamble P 204 contains +1 or -1 in the 100 subcarriers corresponding to the 100 subcarriers that would normally carry data and pilot symbols during regular transmission. The N-IFFT module 210 performs a N-point Inverse Fast Fourier Transform. "N" represents a number of subcarriers and a number of points in the IFFT (or FFT). The cyclic prefix insertion module 212 inserts a cyclic prefix (CP). The transmit portion 101A transmits a signal 214 with the preamble across a wireless channel 155 to the receive portion 103B. Modulation by a carrier frequency is not shown for simplicity.



The receive portion 103B includes a channel estimator 216, an N/2-FFT (Fast Fourier Transform) module 220, a decision slicer 226, a demodulator 228, an N-FFT module 230, and a cyclic prefix removal module 232. The cyclic prefix removal module 232 receives a transmitted preamble and later receives data from the transmit portion 101A. The cyclic prefix removal module 232 removes a cyclic prefix, and outputs a received preamble sequence P 231 to the N/2-FFT module 220 in a training mode. In a data mode, the cyclic prefix removal module 232 removes a cyclic prefix and uses a switch 233 to output data y from a received data packet to the N-FFT module 230.



The N/2-FFT and N-FFT modules 220, 230 perform 128-point and 256-point fast Fourier transforms (when N=256), respectively. The N/2-FFT module 220 outputs a received preamble P 217 to the channel estimator 216. The N-FFT module 230 outputs a data symbol Y to the demodulator 228. The demodulator 228 outputs a demodulated data symbol X 227 to the channel estimator 216 and the decision slicer 226. The decision slicer 226 may be any type of decision maker, e.g., hard decision or decode decision.



After N/2 FFT transformation, the channel estimator 216 may recognize that +/-1 preamble P 204 was sent by the transmit portion 101A and may use the pre-stored preamble 204 to derive a channel estimate for each subcarrier. The channel estimator 216 has access to the preamble P 204, which is pre-stored in the receive portion 103B, as shown in FIG. 2. The channel estimator 216 compares the pre-stored preamble P 204 to the received and processed P 217. The pre-stored preamble P 204 and the received preamble P 217 provide initial channel estimates for the corresponding subcarrier. The channel estimator 216 outputs an estimated channel frequency response H 222 for the corresponding subcarriers. Interpolation and other techniques can be used to obtain channel estimates for the subcarriers that do not have a training symbol sent in the preamble as described later in the text.



The decision slicer 226 may be used to refine channel estimates, as described below. The decision slicer 226 may output decoded data dec{ X} 224 to the channel estimator 216, as well as a deinterleaver, a channel decoder and other components 236.



A "training sequence" is a sequence of known transmit data in the time domain for establishing communications between a transmitter 100 and receiver 102 for a channel. To perform frequency synchronization in an IEEE 802.11a OFDM system, the transmit portion 101A transmits two repeated, identical, time domain training sequences in two preambles P 204 over two OFDM symbol durations. An OFDM symbol (FIGS. 1B-1C) in the frequency domain is made up of data subcarriers, pilot subcarriers and null subcarriers, and an OFDM symbol duration is a length of an OFDM symbol in the time domain (FIG. 1C). The number of subcarriers (FIG. 1C) determines an FFT size. The receive portion 103B computes the correlation between the two received time domain training sequences to obtain timing information, correct frequency offset, etc. The IEEE 802.16a uses one OFDM symbol duration to transmit the preambles in order to obtain a repeated sequence in the time domain with an OFDM symbol period. Training symbols are sent for "even" subcarriers only. The OFDM symbol is further described on pages 145-147 of the IEEE 802.16a draft amendment.



The portion of the preamble 204 in FIG. 2 that can be used for channel estimation may have a magnitude of 1 and pseudo random phases for "even" subcarriers. In the frequency domain, the preamble 204 may be expressed as:



.+-..times..times..+-..+-..+-..times..times..+-..+-..+-..+-..+-..times..+- -. ##EQU00002##



As shown, only one hundred of the two hundred non-guard subcarriers (of the total 256 subcarriers per OFDM symbol) are actually excited to be +/-1. Under IEEE 802.11a and 802.16a standards, the transmit portion 101A zeroes out the guard subcarriers, e.g., subcarriers k=-128, -127 to -101 and 101, 102 to 127 for an 802.16a system, in an OFDM symbol for pulse shaping and other purposes.



A problem is the channel estimator 216 only has information for the excited subcarriers (every other subcarrier) but needs to somehow derive the channel estimate for the zeroed out subcarriers (k=+/-1, +/-3, . . . +/-99) where a training symbol is not transmitted (for an IEEE 802.16a system, the channel estimates in the +/-101, +/-102, . . . +/-127, -128 subcarriers do not need to be computed because they are guard subcarriers and no data symbols are carried in these guard subcarriers).



An upsampling approach has been proposed to estimate the channel response of these P.sub.k=0 subcarriers. The channel estimator 216 uses the determined preamble P 217 to obtain channel estimates for the even subcarriers. An N-point IFFT is done with these channel estimates back to the time domain. The result is periodic with a period of N/2. The last N/2 samples are zeroed out, and a N-point FFT is performed to obtain all the interpolated points. Interpolation with upsampling may not be accurate because the zeroed out subcarriers in the time domain, especially zeroed out subcarriers +/-101 to +/-127, -128, is similar to adding high frequency components. This may degrade performance. Upsampling is also complex because it involves multiple FFT and IFFT computations.



In an embodiment, a relatively low-complexity channel estimation technique may be used to derive an initial channel estimate with even subcarriers and use linear interpolation and reduced complexity adaptive filtering to refine the initial channel estimate.



Since the transmit portion 101A excites almost every other subcarrier, the receive portion 103B may assume that the two even subcarriers are correlated and perform a linear interpolation. The receive portion 103B examines every other subcarrier (e.g., even subcarriers up to +/-100) and estimates the intermediate (odd) value.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart describing a channel estimate technique according to an embodiment. The N/2-FFT module 220 averages the two received, identical, repeated training sequences in the preamble p 231 in the time domain by adding the time domain samples and dividing by two (block 305). This may be expressed as:



.times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003##



where p.sub.k is one received preamble sequence 231 in the time domain, and p.sub.k+N/2 is the other received preamble sequence 231 in the time domain in FIG. 2. N represents the number of subcarriers (e.g., 256) that carry the preamble. Because of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN), an average may be derived to increase the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the received training sequence.



The N/2-FFT module 220 computes a 128-point fast Fourier transform (FFT) of p to yield P.sub.k 217 for k=0, +/-1, +/-2, . . . , +/-63, -64 (up to only 64 because the previous operation divided 128 by 2) (block 310).



The N-FFT module 230 computes a 256-point fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the data portion y of the packet to yield Y. The demodulator 228 demodulates the output of the N-FFT module 230 to yield X.



The channel estimator 216 computes initial channel estimates in the frequency domain for even subcarriers up to one hundred (block 315). The initial channel estimates may be denoted as H.sub.k,0 222, with `0` indicating a training period (i.e., a time instance when training occurs) at time 0. A `1` indicates a next time instance when data starts. A `2` indicates a next time instance when another data packet starts. In this case, training symbols are transmitted in the even subcarriers of the preamble P.sub.k 204, as described in equation (2) for the IEEE 802.16a system example.



.times..times..times..times..times..times..+-..+-..+-..times..+-..times..- times..times..times..noteq. ##EQU00004##



where 2k indicates that only even subcarriers can be estimated since training symbols are only sent over even subcarriers. The value for P.sub.k,0 is from the channel 155 received by the receive portion 103B, and the value for 204 is pre-stored at the receive portion 103B. Since P.sub.2k.epsilon.{+/-1} typically (for example Equation (2)), no actual division operations may be needed.



For the odd subcarriers, the channel estimator 216 linearly interpolates two derived adjacent channel estimates by adding them and dividing by two (block 320).



.times..times..times..times..times..times..times..+-..+-..times..+-. ##EQU00005##



where 2k, 2k+1 and 2k+2 indicate subcarrier 2k, 2k+1 and 2k+2, and H2k+i,o is the interpolated channel estimate. H.sub.2k+2,0 is derived from a training symbol in a similar way as H.sub.2k,0-



For the IEEE 802.16a system, H.sub.k for k.gtoreq.101, and k=-101 need not be computed because they are guard subcarriers, and no data is sent in these subcarriers (see Equation (2)).



Since a data packet typically contains more than one OFDM symbol, the channel estimator 216 may make use of decoded data symbols dec{ X} 224 to refine and update the channel estimates H 222 produced by the channel estimator 216. The channel estimator 216 may use adaptive filtering techniques, such as the Kalman filter, Least Mean Square (LMS), and exponential update, to update the channel estimates H 222 based on many observations (block 325).



The channel estimator 216 may use a decision by decision slicer 226 of received decoded data in a data packet to continuously update the channel estimate and thus improve performance.



The channel estimator 216 may use an optimal Kalman filter to update or refine the channel estimates. The channel update may be expressed as:



.function. ##EQU00006##



where H.sub.k,n is the original channel estimate, "n" is a time index and indicates the nth time that channel estimates are refined/updated, (1-1/n) is an assigned weight, and 1/n is another assigned weight. As time increases, i.e., n=1, 2, 3, 4, etc., more weight is placed on H.sub.k,n in equation (6). Equation (6) takes an average. Y.sub.k,n is the received value or symbol for a particular kth received OFDM subcarrier. At each time n, the channel estimator 216 performs channel estimates for all k subcarriers that carry data (not guard and DC subcarriers, as described above). The decision slicer 226 receives X.sub.k,n and may make a hard decision to decide which constellation point is closest to the received symbol X.sub.k,n. Dec( X.sub.k,n) is decoded data output from the decision slicer 226. Dec( X.sub.k,n) is the closest QAM constellation point to X.sub.k,n from decision decoding by the decision slicer 226. X.sub.k,n may be expressed as: X.sub.k,n= Y.sub.k,n/ H.sub.k,n (7)



Thus, the channel estimator 216 makes an updated channel estimate based on the hard decision of the received packet.



Equation (6) may be used for interpolated subcarriers as well as un-interpolated subcarriers. Equation (6) may be used for IEEE 802.11a or 802.16a. More data symbols may further refine equation (6).



Instead of using a hard decision output, the channel estimator 216 may tolerate a delay and use a Dec( X) output of a Viterbi decoder 236 to obtain channel estimate updates based on a sequence estimator instead of symbol-by-symbol or decision decoding.



The channel estimator 216 may use a least mean square (LMS) technique for channel updates, which may be computed by:



.times..times..mu..function..times..function..times..function..times..tim- es..noteq..times..mu..function..times..function..times..function..times..t- imes. ##EQU00007##



where P.sub.k.noteq.0 corresponds to the even subcarriers in equation (2), P.sub.k=0 corresponds to the odd subcarriers in equation (2)), and .mu. and .mu..sub.1 are update coefficients for the LMS algorithm for the even (trained) and odd (interpolated) subcarriers respectively.



Another approach for channel updates is based on the hard-decision symbols computed from the demodulated symbols, i.e., a processed received symbol with the modulating carrier frequency and the effects of the channel removed. To compute channel updates based on the hard-decision symbols, the channel estimator 216 may use:



.alpha..alpha..times..function..times..times..noteq..alpha..alpha..times.- .function..times..times. ##EQU00008##



where .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1 are adaptation coefficients with values between zero and one, and can be determined through simulations (e.g., table in FIG. 3). Different adaptation coefficients .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1, and thus different updates, may be used for excited subcarriers when P.sub.k.noteq.0 and for non-excited subcarriers when P.sub.k=0. The adaptation coefficients .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1 may be set to be a power of 2 to avoid using a multiplier or divider. This is an approximation to the optimal Kalman filter described above with equation (9). The computation in equation (9) is simpler than equation (6) because a divider is used for 1/n in equation (6), but not in equation (9). Even so, in a similar approach 1/n in equation (6) may be fixed to 2.sup.-3 and n=8. Similarly, .alpha. may be fixed to 2.sup.-3 in equation (9).



The adaptation coefficients .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1 may also be adaptively changed according to the number of updates to provide better estimate updates. An optimal changing point may be stored in a table, as shown in FIG. 4. FIG. 4 shows a table of number of updates and adaptation coefficient settings to approximate an optimal Kalman filter. For example, if the channel estimator 216 is at the 2000th update, the update constant to be used is .alpha.=2.sup.-11. The performance difference between the optimal Kalman filter and the described method is less than 0.2 dB in the noise variance of the channel estimate. An alternative choice is to choose a constant a for all the updates depending on the length of the packet.



The length of the packet is known at the beginning of the packet. This information can be used to pick an .alpha. to be used for all the updates such that some metric, such as bit error rate, is minimized. This method may perform worse than the previous method, but gives a better performance than choosing a fixed a for all packet lengths.



Since the interpolated channel estimates can limit the performance of the receiver, one may choose to adapt only the interpolated channel estimates (i.e., setting .alpha.=0) to further reduce the complexity. Depending on the channel condition and the SNR operating point, the optimal adaptation coefficients .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1 can have different values. Furthermore, the optimal adaptation coefficients .alpha. and .alpha..sub.1 can also be set differently for, for example, different modulation schemes, channelizations and packet sizes as this information is known at the receiver. The proposed channel adaptation update can also be applied to channel estimation in OFDM systems, such as the IEEE 802.11a/g systems, which do not require interpolation. In this case, the adaptation update can be performed after the initial channel estimates of all the data subcarriers.



In an alternative approach, a sequence estimator (symbol-by-symbol) or channel decoding may be used instead of hard-decision symbols.



Simulating the performance of using the proposed channel estimation technique shows that, for example, the decoder performance is about 1 dB away from the ideal case when the channel is known at the receiver for a rate-1/2 16-QAM system in SUI (Stanford University Interim)-3 channels.



A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the application. For example, the techniques above are implemented with IEEE 802.11a and 802.16a systems as examples. Other OFDM or non-OFDM systems and standards may be used with the techniques described above. The techniques may be applied to point-to-multiple-point systems and multiple-in-multiple-out (MIMO) systems. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

PatentNumber=7961672,TECHNICAL FIELD



The present disclosure is directed, in general, to wireless communications and, more specifically, to a feedback generator, a feedback decoder and methods of operating a feedback generator and a feedback decoder.



BACKGROUND



A key principle in orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) communication systems is that the total operating bandwidth is divided into sub-carriers, also called resource blocks (RBs), where transmissions for user equipment (UE) occur in an orthogonal (i.e., not mutually interfering) manner. Each RB can potentially carry data to a different UE. The scheduler at the transmitter (also known as base station or Node B) selects the UEs to be scheduled in a given time period and also determines which RBs are used for each UE. By scheduling each UE on RBs where it has high signal-to-interference and noise ratio (SINR) and by adapting the transmission data rate to the SINR on the scheduled RBs, the scheduler can improve the data throughput to each UE and therefore also the overall system throughput. To enable near-optimum frequency domain scheduling of UEs in the RBs of the operating bandwidth, each UE feeds back the channel quality indicator (CQI) metric it might potentially experience for each RB or some combination of RBs to its serving Node B. Improvements in the process of feeding back this information would prove beneficial in the art.



SUMMARY



Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a feedback generator, a feedback decoder and methods of operating the feedback generator and decoder. In one embodiment, the feedback generator is for use in user equipment of an OFDMA system and includes a CQI compression module configured to provide a compressed channel quality indicator (CQI) for the user equipment corresponding to at least one sub-band, where a sub-band is a group of k resource blocks (k.gtoreq.1). The feedback generator also includes a transmit module coupled to the CQI compression module and configured to transmit the compressed CQI to a serving base station. In one embodiment, the feedback decoder is for use in a base station of an OFDMA system and includes a receive module configured to receive a compressed CQI in the base station from user equipment corresponding to at least one sub-band. The feedback decoder also includes a CQI restoration module coupled to the receive module and configured to provide a restored CQI from the compressed CQI for the at least one sub-band.



In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of operating a feedback generator that is for use in user equipment of an OFDMA system. In one embodiment, the method includes providing a compressed CQI for the user equipment corresponding to at least one sub-band, where a sub-band is a group of resource blocks and transmitting the compressed CQI to a serving base station. In one embodiment, the disclosure provides a method of operating a feedback decoder in a base station that is for use in an OFDMA system. The method includes receiving a compressed CQI in the base station from user equipment that corresponds to at least one sub-band and providing a restored CQI from the compressed CQI for the at least one sub-band.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure, reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:



FIGS. 1A and 1B illustrate functional diagrams of an uplink portion and a downlink portion of a communications system as provided by one embodiment of the disclosure;



FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a frequency-time operating resource space as may be employed by an OFDMA communications system such as shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B;



FIG. 3 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of hierarchical granularity refinement constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate embodiments of first and second half-interval codewords for a Haar-based codebook design constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 5 illustrates an embodiment of a run length codebook constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 6 illustrates an embodiment of a run length codebook with oscillation constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 7 illustrates an embodiment of a codebook composed of elements of ones and zeros and constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 8 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of pulse shaped CQI compression constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 9 illustrates MIMO spatially independent CQI compression for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 10 illustrates MIMO spatially differential CQI compression for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 11 illustrates MIMO joint difference coding CQI compression for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure;



FIG. 12 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of operating a feedback generator carried out according to the principles of the present disclosure; and



FIG. 13 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of operating a feedback decoder carried out according to the principles of the present disclosure.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION



Some examples of a channel quality indicator (CQI) include SINR, recommended or supportable spectral efficiency, recommended or supportable modulation-and-coding scheme (MCS) and mutual information. Since CQI is typically quantized or discrete, a set of possible CQI values may be predefined, and the index of the corresponding CQI value is reported.



While accurate CQI feedback enhances the ability of a scheduler at a serving Node B to select UEs and their data rates, it also incurs feedback overhead on the uplink (UL) from the UE to the serving Node B. To minimize this overhead, it is beneficial to use compression techniques to efficiently feed back the CQI information from different UEs to the serving Node B. This may be done by recognizing that for a given UE, the CQI feed back across multiple RBs is often strongly correlated. In addition, it is also possible to exploit the system property (e.g., the Node B scheduler) to selectively compress the CQI with only marginal loss in system throughput.



Embodiments of the present disclosure exploit these properties and propose specific approaches to reduce the CQI feedback overhead in UL communications with the serving Node B. Additionally, embodiments employ CQI compression techniques for the case of one spatial stream and provide extension for the case of multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) communication where more than one spatial stream is multiplexed.



FIGS. 1A and 1B illustrate functional diagrams of an uplink portion 100 and a downlink portion 150 of a communications system as provided by one embodiment of the disclosure. In the illustrated embodiment, the communications system is an orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) system, which provides a total operating bandwidth divided into non-overlapping RBs. The RBs provide transmissions for different UEs that occur in an orthogonal or substantially independent manner wherein each RB can potentially carry data to a different UE.



The illustrated uplink portion 100 includes a plurality of UEs 105 wherein a first UE 105a is representative. The uplink portion 100 also includes a plurality of compressed CQIs 110 corresponding to each of the plurality of UEs 105 that is provided over a wireless feedback channel to a serving Node B 115.



In the uplink portion 100, the first UE 105a includes a feedback generator 106 that has a CQI compression module 107 and a transmit module 108. The feedback generator 106 is representative of feedback generators in the remaining plurality of UEs 105. The base station 115 includes a feedback decoder 120 that has a receive module 121 to recover a feedback signal transmitted by the UEs. The feedback decoder 120 also has a CQI restoration module 122, which provides a restored CQI (i.e., reverses the CQI compression by the UE) from the feedback signal that may occur on one or more RBs.



FIG. 1B depicts an exemplary downlink transmission system 150. After decoding of the feedback signal and CQI restoration, the uncompressed CQI of different UEs is provided to a scheduler 165 in the Node B 115. The scheduler 165 selects the UEs to be transmitted on each RB along with corresponding modulation and coding schemes. Modulation and coding is provided for the different UEs, and a resulting signal is then summed up and transmitted on a downlink channel to the plurality of UEs 105.



The CQI compression module 107 is configured to provide a compressed CQI for the UE 105a corresponding to at least one sub-band, where a sub-band is a group of k resource blocks (k.gtoreq.1). The transmit module 108, which is coupled to the CQI compression module 107, is configured to transmit the compressed CQI to the serving Node B, as shown. The receive module 121 is configured to receive the compressed CQI corresponding to at least one sub-band from the UE 105a. The CQI restoration module 122, which is coupled to the receive module 121, is configured to provide a restored CQI from the compressed CQI for the at least one sub-band.



FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a frequency-time operating resource space 200 as may be employed by an OFDMA communications system such as shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B. An operating bandwidth of the operating resource space 200 may be divided into N resource blocks (RB.sub.1-RB.sub.N) wherein each of the N resource blocks may be defined as a set of adjacent sub-carriers (tones). For example, a 3GPP LTE system with 5 MHz bandwidth employs 25 RBs wherein each has a 180 kHz bandwidth for a total operating bandwidth of 4.5 MHz, with the remaining 0.5 MHz providing a guard band separating transmissions on two adjacent bands on different cells. A sub-band of the operating bandwidth corresponds to a collection of one or more RBs, as shown. One sub-band is defined as the smallest unit for CQI reporting. That is, the RBs may also be concatenated to form larger ones thereby fundamentally reducing the CQI reporting overhead and the control channel overhead in the downlink that signals their allocated RBs to UEs that have been scheduled. Based on the channel and interference and noise variance estimates, the UE computes a CQI for each RB, which may be denoted S.sub.1, S.sub.2, . . . , S.sub.N. As previously mentioned, some examples of CQI are SINR, recommended or supportable spectral efficiency, recommended or supportable modulation-and-coding-scheme (MCS), received signal strength and mutual information. Since the CQI is typically quantized or discrete, a set of possible CQI values is predefined, and the index of the corresponding CQI value is reported.



Referring again to FIGS. 1A and 1B, various embodiments of the present disclosure for providing CQI compression are presented below. Predistortion of a compressed CQI may be employed by the UE to ensure that quantization errors obey desired or predefined properties. In general, predistortion may be applied to any quantization scheme. In one approach, the UE quantizes the compressed CQIs. Then, before feedback to the Node B, it locally recreates the CQIs using the same reconstruction scheme used by the Node B. The UE then examines the quantization error between the actual and restored CQIs. It then modifies some of the quantization bits to optimize some error metric.



More specifically, for any sub-band wherein the reconstructed CQI is greater than the actual CQI might result in the Node B using an unsupportably high modulation and coding scheme, resulting in transmission errors. Thus, it is desirable to reduce the number of sub-bands for which the CQI is overestimated due to quantization. To combat this, the UE can count the number of sub-bands for which the CQI is overestimated. If this number exceeds a threshold, it can decrease a mean or base-layer CQI feedback for schemes that use the mean. Alternatively, the UE can adjust the mean (or base-layer) CQI feedback to impose a limit on the maximum error between reconstructed and actual CQI fed back. Again, it is emphasized that CQI predistortion is a quantization technique which may be used in combination with any compression approach, including the ones discussed below.



A down-sampled CQI compression approach may be employed to reduce feedback to the Node B. In down-sampled feedback, the UE feeds back quantized versions of the CQI on every K.sup.th sub-band. Hence, only



##EQU00001## values are fed back, instead of N values in complete feedback. The Node B may use some type of interpolation function (e.g., linear, cubic spline or sinc) to obtain the CQI in each non-reported sub-band. Thus, for K=2, the UE may feed back {S.sub.1, S.sub.3, S.sub.5 . . . } or {S.sub.2, S.sub.4, S.sub.6 . . . }, and the Node B can use interpolation among {S.sub.1, S.sub.3, S.sub.5 . . . } to obtain {S.sub.2, S.sub.4, S.sub.6 . . . } or the opposite, respectively.



A predistorted down-sampled CQI compression approach may also be employed. In predistorted down-sampled CQI feedback, a UE still feeds back only



##EQU00002## values as in down-sampled feedback. However, the UE is also assumed to have further knowledge of the interpolation used by the Node B to restore or reconstruct the CQI. Such knowledge is typically available through one of the following. The reconstruction mechanism is fixed in a standard, either explicitly or implicitly since the reconstruction and feedback mechanisms are intrinsically tied together. Alternately, the reconstruction mechanism may be dependent on the UE's geometry or other feedback quantities, of which the UE is aware. The reconstruction mechanism may also be signaled to the UE, either individually or through higher layer signaling or as a cell parameter.



In all the above cases, the UE knows the reconstruction mechanism used by the Node B, so it may predistort the fed back CQI quantities to optimize (minimize) the error in the reconstructed CQI to a degree required. Of course, different optimization criteria may be chosen for the predistortion used.



For example, suppose e.sub.k is the CQI error in the k.sup.th sub-band, where the CQI is either represented in a linear or a dB scale. The UE can estimate e.sub.k because it knows both the actual CQI and the restored CQI based on its own feedback. Then, an optimization cost function may be chosen from the mean of e.sub.k.sup.2 across all sub-bands or the maximum of e.sub.k.sup.2 across all sub-bands. Alternatively, it may be chosen as a maximum of some other function e.sub.k, which reflects the fact that CQI over-estimation is more harmful than CQI under-estimation. One example is e.sub.k.sup.2-.alpha.U(e.sub.k) where .alpha. is some constant greater than zero and U(x) is 1 if x<0 and 0 otherwise. Generally, the UE can predistort its CQI feedback values so that the chosen cost function is optimized.



Frequency differential CQI compression provides another embodiment of the present disclosure. This compression approach uses the fact the CQIs on neighboring (or adjacent) sub-bands are often close to each other in value because a particular channel response may not substantially vary in frequency between two sub-bands. Thus, one can quantize the difference between the CQI of two neighboring sub-bands with fewer bits than required for the absolute CQI itself. For example, the UE quantizes the CQI of the central sub-band s.sub.N/2 to get F.sub.N/2. Here, N is the number of sub-bands. The precision used for storing F.sub.N/2 may be high. For example, four bits may be used. The use of the central sub-band is exemplary, since any other sub-band may be used in a similar fashion.



Then, for i=N/2+1, N/2+2, . . . , N, quantize (S.sub.i-F.sub.i-1) to get D.sub.i. Note that the dynamic range of D.sub.i is typically much less than that of S.sub.i, hence fewer bits can be used. For instance, two bits may be used for the differential CQI. Compute F.sub.i=F.sub.i-1+D.sub.i to enable quantization of the next S.sub.i. Similarly for i=N/2-1, N/2-2 . . . 1, quantize (S.sub.i-F.sub.i+1) to get D.sub.i. Compute F.sub.i=F.sub.i+1+D.sub.i to enable quantization of the next S.sub.i. Then, the UE feeds back the base CQI F.sub.N/2 and {D.sub.1, D.sub.2, . . . , D.sub.N/2-1}, {D.sub.N/2+1, D.sub.N/2+2, . . . , D.sub.N}. The Node B reconstructs the CQIs sequentially following the equations F.sub.i=F.sub.i-1+D.sub.i and F.sub.i=F.sub.i+1+D.sub.i. In addition, it is also possible to apply additional smoothing (e.g., via filtering) at the Node B after reconstructing the CQI.



Since the channel profile may vary over time, it may also be beneficial to configure the sub-band size (i.e., the parameter k, where k is the number of RBs per sub-band) semi-statically either by the Node B or the network. The Node B can signal the change in k to the UE via higher layer signaling or broadcast channel. While it is beneficial to have multiple possibilities for k, the number of possibilities may also be kept small for simplicity. It is also possible to select different values of k depending on the system bandwidth.



Wideband and differential CQI compression affords another embodiment of the present disclosure. Wideband CQI is defined as a single CQI that represents all the sub-bands of interest within the system bandwidth or a portion of the system bandwidth in the case of partial reuse. That is, the term "all sub-bands" may refer to a set or subset of all the available sub-bands that are semi-statically configured by the Node B or network on higher layers (including the possibility of using all the sub-bands within the system bandwidth). The mean CQI across all the sub-bands of interest may be used as a wideband CQI although other CQI statistics are also possible (e.g., some type of non-linear averaging or median across sub-bands of interest). This compression approach is similar to frequency differential compression. Here, the fact that the individual CQIs are densely concentrated around the wideband CQI is used. Further, the correlation of CQIs in adjacent sub-bands may be used to design joint quantizers for adjacent sub-bands. More precisely, the approach first computes and quantizes a base wideband CQI across all sub-bands. Let the wideband CQI value be F.sub.0. The precision used for storing F.sub.0 may be high (e.g., four bits may be used). Then, the difference between the CQI for each of the N sub-bands is derived relative to F.sub.0. Different quantization schemes can be used (e.g., joint across sub-bands or a separate quantizer per sub-band) to obtain D.sub.1, D.sub.2, . . . , D.sub.N. Note that the dynamic range of D.sub.i is typically much less than that of S.sub.i, hence fewer bits can be used. For instance, two bits may be used. The Node-B then derives the sub-band CQI S.sub.n from D.sub.n and F.sub.0.



In one variant of the above approach, the UE reports the differential CQI for only a few selected sub-bands. Here, a single CQI can be reported for each of the selected sub-bands. Alternatively, a single CQI can be used to represent all the selected sub-bands. In this case, the Node B uses the aforementioned single CQI when the UE is scheduled within the selected sub-bands. For the other sub-bands, the Node B uses the wideband CQI to schedule the UE. The sub-bands for which the UE reports the differential CQI(s) can either be configured by the Node B, or chosen by the UE. For example, the UE could report the differential CQI(s) for only the sub-bands with large CQI. When the UE selects the reporting sub-bands, the UE may also report some indicator for the positions of the selected sub-bands.



The use of wavelet coefficients provides another embodiment of CQI compression. One view of CQI compression is that the vector s=[S.sub.1, S.sub.2, S.sub.3, . . . , S.sub.N].sup.T needs to be represented. Clearly, this can be done by using a set of (N.times.1)M basis vectors w.sub.1, w.sub.2, . . . , w.sub.M and finding coefficients {c.sub.i} such that the error between s and .SIGMA..sub.iw.sub.ic.sub.i is optimized. Typically, the basis vectors w.sub.1, w.sub.2, . . . , w.sub.M may be chosen to be mutually orthogonal.



Different cost functions to measure optimality may be used, as discussed above. The set of basis vectors is fixed. Examples include polynomial vectors where the j.sup.th term of w.sub.i is j.sup.i-1, and Fourier vectors, where the j.sup.th of w.sub.i is



.function..times..pi..times..times. ##EQU00003## for



.times..times. ##EQU00004## and



.function..times..pi..times..times. ##EQU00005## otherwise.



Difference based wavelets may also be employed. Here the first basis vector is



##EQU00006## The i.sup.th basis vector is chosen to be [0 . . . 0 1-a.sub.i a.sub.ia.sub.i a.sub.i . . . a.sub.i], where



##EQU00007## It is easy to check that these vectors are orthogonal. The first coefficient represents the mean. The second coefficient represents the difference of the first CQI with respect to the mean, etc. The quantization range of the coefficients varies depending on their dynamic range. For example, c.sub.1 uses four bits. But, c.sub.2, c.sub.3, . . . can use two bits or less. In general, the precision may be reduced as i increases. Using these basis vectors, the UE finds coefficients {c.sub.i} that represent the CQI vector s. The Node B uses the received coefficients to reconstruct s as .SIGMA..sub.iw.sub.ic.sub.i.



One more specific example is to use a Hadamard matrix (Hadamard transform) approach. Hadamard matrices have elements of {+1, -1} which are orthogonal. The property that Hadamard matrices have only {+1, -1} components facilitates quantization, thereby reducing quantization ranges by differentiating two consecutive CQIs. Equation (1) below is an example of a Hadamard matrix, for N=4.



.function. ##EQU00008## The first row represents the mean of CQIs across different sub-bands. The second row is the sum of the difference of the first CQI and the second CQI, and the difference of the third CQI and the fourth CQI. As expected, because the difference for two consecutive CQIs can be small, the second transformed CQI may be quantized with fewer bits than the first transformed CQI. For the third and fourth transformed CQI, the same logic may be applied. An additional advantage is that arithmetic operations of the Hadamard transform needs only additions and subtractions.



There always exists an N.times.N Hadamard matrix when N is a multiple of four. Therefore, the Hadamard matrix may be used when the number of CQIs to be fed back is a multiple of four. When the number of CQIs is not a multiple of four, the following approach may be used. First, the remainder of the number of CQIs divided by four (P=mod(N, 4)) is obtained. Among N CQIs, the best P entries are chosen, and these entries are quantized by full bits (e.g., four bits). The number of remaining CQIs is a multiple of four. Then we generate a Hadamard matrix and encode the remaining CQIs by the Hadamard matrix. Then one of the encoded CQIs is an average of the remaining CQIs and this is quantized by more bits. The differential CQIs are quantized by fewer bits.



A second approach is to increase the original number of CQIs to the next multiple of four that is larger than the original number of CQIs. For example, if there are 25 CQIs to be fed back, we increase the number of CQIs to 28, which is a multiple of four. Then dummy information is put into the increased CQI positions. The dummy information may be the mean of the CQIs. Then, with the modified number of CQIs, the Hadamard matrix approach of CQI compression may be employed.



FIG. 3 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of hierarchical granularity refinement 300 constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. The hierarchical granularity refinement 300 is a specific example of different-based wavelets. Here, the wavelet coefficients are chosen such that at any given point of time, the frequency granularity is refined by half. Thus, one CQI is calculated across the all of the frequency band (which represents a wideband CQI) in stage 1. Then in stage 2, the granularity is refined by giving the difference between the left half of the band and the earlier all-band CQI. The right half of the band is assumed to lie symmetrically on the opposite side of the all-band CQI. After this refinement, estimates of the CQI in the right and left halves of the band are provided. Then, in stage 3, the granularity can be refined to a fourth of the band, as shown. This process may be continued to stage 4 for individual sub-bands, if desired.



The above quantization can be represented by a linear transformation of the original CQIs using difference based wavelets. Specifically, the transformation matrix for N CQIs is given by the N



.function. ##EQU00009## where B(N) is the (N-1.times.N) matrix recursively defined as



.times..times..times..times..times..times..function..times..times..times.- .times..function..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00010##



The use of combinatorial compression provides another embodiment of CQI compression. In the case where the feedback quantity is a discrete one (e.g., the index of a recommended modulation-and-coding scheme (MCS) or payload size), combinatorial techniques may be used for feedback. For example, the sub-band CQI to be fed back is an integer lying close around a wideband CQI value S.sub.0, which is typically strongly dependent on the UE's geometry. In that case, one can achieve efficient feedback by exploiting this fact.



For example, the UE can feed back a base wideband CQI value and then compress the others by using their difference with respect to the base CQI. This is similar to the approaches discussed with respect to frequency differential CQI and wideband plus differential CQI compression with the modification that combinatorial techniques exploiting the integer property of the differences may be used. Specifically, this fact may be used to develop a codebook of quantized CQI vectors. Then, the actual CQI vector is rounded off to a nearest element in the codebook, and the index of that element is fed back. Many embodiments of this general principle are possible. In fact, the previous differential CQI compression schemes are special cases of this approach.



In addition, different measures of closeness for quantization can be used. One exemplary measure is the L1 or L2 norm of the difference between the actual CQI and the elements of the codebook. This is straightforward to do since distances between integer vectors are computationally less challenging than the original real-field vector quantization problem. Note that such measure may be simply regarded as a UE implementation issue.



One other example of such a combinatorial approach is provided below for compressing the CQIs. Let S={S.sub.1, . . . , S.sub.N} be CQIs to be fed back. First, a wideband or base CQI value is computed from the vectors S. This value may be the quantized mean of {S.sub.i}, the quantized median of {S.sub.i}, the quantized mean of the minimum and maximum values as



.function..function. ##EQU00011## or any other formula representing a wideband/base CQI such as some type of non-linear averaging. Essentially, the base CQI represents a single CQI for all the N sub-bands of interest as taught throughout the description. Next, the differences D={D.sub.i, . . . , D.sub.N} given by D.sub.i=S.sub.i-S.sub.0 (6) are calculated. The index or indicator representing the difference is then reported along with the wideband (base) CQI.



Now, a codebook C={C.sub.1, C.sub.2, . . . , C.sub.P} of all valid feedback difference vectors is chosen. For example, the codebook may consist of a well-chosen set of zero-sum vectors which approximate actual difference vectors D with high probability. As another example, the codebook may consist of zero-sum sequences, which contain at least K(.ltoreq.N) zero elements, with all other elements being +1 or -1. As another example, one may choose zero-sum sequences with optimized inter-element Euclidean distances using, for example, the Lloyd algorithm.



Given the codebook, the UE chooses the codebook element that is closest to the actual difference vector D. The metric of closeness could be, for example, the Euclidean distance. Thus, the chosen feedback vector for a difference vector D is



.times..times..times..ltoreq..ltoreq. ##EQU00012## The index i in the codebook and the base value S.sub.0 are fed back. The Node B reconstructs the CQI by adding the quantized difference vector C.sub.i to the base layer CQI S.sub.0. Assuming say a four bit representation of the base layer CQI S.sub.0, the total number of required feedback bits is 4+.left brkt-top.log.sub.2P.right brkt-bot..



There are several approaches to building codebooks. A first approach is based on channel statistics and a second approach uses constructive ways to build codebooks. For codebook design based on channel statistics, channel statistics are collected and differential CQIs, with an appropriate base wideband CQI S.sub.0, are calculated. With collected channel statistics of differential CQIs, patterns are counted that occur and P patterns are obtained from a codebook. For example, assume that {d.sub.1, d.sub.2, d.sub.1, d.sub.3, d.sub.4, d.sub.1, d.sub.2, d.sub.1, d.sub.4} is a set of collected statistics of differential CQIs. Then d.sub.1 occurs four times, d.sub.2 occurs three times, d.sub.3 occurs once, and d.sub.4 occurs twice. If the codebook size is 2(P=2), then C={d.sub.1, d.sub.2} would be a good exemplary choice. If codebook size is 3(P=3), then C={d.sub.1, d.sub.2, d.sub.4} may be a good exemplary choice. A further exemplary restriction may be that each of d.sub.i is a zero-sum vector. Another exemplary restriction might be that the integer values in each element of d.sub.i can only be of {0, .+-.M, .+-.(M-1), . . . , .+-.1}.



In some situations, constructive codebook design approaches are needed to build deterministic codebooks. Several constructive codebook design approaches are discussed below. FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate embodiments of first and second half-interval codewords 400, 450 for a Haar-based codebook design constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. Haar functions can provide a role as basis functions in functional spaces. An example for six CQIs using Haar functions is discussed below.



First, the entire interval is divided by two. The first half-interval consists of +1s and the second half-interval consists of -1s. Therefore, a first codeword is {+1, +1, +1, -1, -1, -1}, as shown. The first half-interval is again divided and the first portion of the first half-interval also consists of a +1 and the remainder of the first half-interval consists of -1s. This provides another codeword {+1, -1, -1, 0, 0, 0}, as shown. This continues to provide a total of six codewords, as shown in FIG. 4A. The second half-interval is likewise divided to produce an additional five codewords as shown in FIG. 4B. Therefore, the total number of codewords is 11.



To better represent possible CQI vectors, codewords of the negative signs of the previous generated codewords may be generated. For example, taking the negative sign of the first codeword {+1, +1, +1, -1, -1, -1} provides {-1, -1, -1, +1, +1, +1}. Therefore, for six CQIs, there are 2.times.11+1=23 codewords in a codebook, which allows five bits to describe the codewords in the codebook. The codebook may be extended to have more than .+-.1 values. That is, if C is a codebook, a new extended codebook is



.times. ##EQU00013## where iC.ident.{iC.sub.1, . . . , iC.sub.P}.



A Haar+Hadamard-based codebook may also be constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. A condition associated with the Haar-based codebook is that only half of the intervals are non-zero. To mitigate this situation, a Haar-based codebook may be combined with a Hadamard codebook taken from a Hadamard matrix. If N is not a multiple of four, a number L is obtained, which is a multiple of four larger than N. Hadamard codewords can be taken from each column of an L.times.L Hadamard matrix. In this approach, the total codebook can be given by



.times..times. ##EQU00014## where C.sub.Haar is a Haar codebook and C.sub.Hadamard is a Hadamard codebook.



Many real-life channels often do not vary significantly in frequency. As a result, the CQI seen by the UE often stays constant over a "run" of successive sub-bands. This fact is exploited by run-length based codebooks, which are an embodiment of the present disclosure. FIG. 5 illustrates an embodiment of a run length codebook 500 constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. As shown, the run length codebook 500 can be parameterized by i.sub.1, i.sub.2, l.sub.1, l.sub.2, where i.sub.1 and i.sub.2 are the starting locations of +1s and -1s, and l.sub.1 and l.sub.2 are the lengths of consecutive +1s and -1s, respectively. A set of these collections forms the run length codebook. There can be several constraints on l.sub.1 and l.sub.2. For example, one constraint may be where l.sub.1=l.sub.2 so that the sum of elements of codewords is zero.



The constraint for l.sub.1=l.sub.2 may be any integer between 0 and



##EQU00015## If this constraint is adopted, the number of codewords may be calculated as follows. If N=2k+1 (an odd number), the number of codewords equals



.function..times..times. ##EQU00016## If N=2k (an even number), the number of codewords equals



.function..times..times. ##EQU00017##



The codebook may be extended to have more than .+-.1 values in the codeword elements. Then the codebook is given by



.times. ##EQU00018## The above example deals with only two runs in the codebook. In general, there may be more than two runs and the above codebook is a special instance of a general run length codebook. Every possible union of these codebooks can form a codebook. If there are too many codewords in the codebook, a subset of an entire run length codebook may be selected as a codebook. For example, the level may be restricted to have a specific number m and a run length to have a specific number l.



Since real-life channels consist of a few channel taps in the time domain, they may correspondingly be oscillatory in the frequency domain. Consequently, the corresponding CQI takes on an oscillatory form, which can be exploited using the principles of this disclosure. In particular, FIG. 6 illustrates an embodiment of a run length codebook with oscillation 600 constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. The oscillatory run length codebook 600 has +1 and -1 elements with oscillation. The oscillatory run length codebook 600 can be parameterized by l.sub.1, l.sub.2, l.sub.3, l.sub.4, where l.sub.1 and l.sub.2 are the lengths of consecutive +1s and -1s, respectively and l.sub.3 and l.sub.4 are the length of consecutive 0s between the +1s and -1s and between the -1s and +1s, respectively. A set of these collections forms a codebook.



There can be several constraints on l.sub.1, l.sub.2, l.sub.3, l.sub.4. For example, there can be a constraint where l.sub.1=l.sub.2. Additionally, there can be a constraint where l.sub.3=l.sub.4 so that the waveform of the codewords is purely periodic. A cyclic shift of the codewords may be allowed to provide many other codewords. For example, if there is a codeword {1 0 -1 0 1 0} as shown in FIG. 6, the cyclic shift of the codeword {0 1 0 -1 0 1} is also a codeword.



The codebook may be extended to have more than .+-.1 values in the elements of codewords. Then the codebook is given by



.times. ##EQU00019## If there are too many codewords in the codebook, a subset of the entire run length codebook may be selected as a codebook. For example, the level may be restricted to have a specific number m and a run length to have a specific number l.



FIG. 7 illustrates an embodiment of a codebook 700 composed of elements of ones and zeros and constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. The codebook 700 is designed containing elements of 1s and 0s in codewords for three clusters as shown in FIG. 7. The mean base value of CQIs with usual Euclidean distance may be employed or another variation of base values using the following approach. First, take a base value



.ltoreq..ltoreq..times. ##EQU00020## and choose the best codeword that minimizes the Euclidean distance. The codebook containing only 1s and 0s may be generalized to have 2s and 0s, 3s and 0s, . . . , Ms and 0s. That is, as discussed previously, if C is a codebook,



'.times. ##EQU00021## is an extended codebook.



The approach may also be extended as follows. Take several base values



.function..ltoreq..ltoreq..times. ##EQU00022## 1.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.M. Take the differences D(m)=.left brkt-bot.D.sub.1(m) . . . D.sub.N(m).right brkt-bot. between MCS CQIs and several base values. D.sub.i(m)=S.sub.i-S.sub.0(m) (11) Find the codewords that have the minimum Euclidean distances with respect to each level m.



.function..times..times..times..function..function..ltoreq..ltoreq. ##EQU00023## Among M levels, find the codeword that minimizes the minimum Euclidean distance.



.function..times..times..times..function..function..ltoreq..ltoreq. ##EQU00024## Feed back the codewords and the level m that minimize the Euclidean distance. As in other cases, it may be noted that the Euclidean distance is only an exemplary distance measure, and an actual receiver may use other distance measures while finding a close approximation to the actual CQI.



FIG. 8 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of pulse shaped CQI compression 800 constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. This scheme follows the general concept of vector quantization where the frequency-domain CQI profile is quantized to a finite set of predetermined profiles. As a frequency domain CQI varies around a mean (base) CQI, quantizing the differential CQI profile becomes a more efficient way of representation.



This scheme forms a set of pre-defined pulse vectors that consists of 0s and 1s, 0s and -1s or +1s and -1s. The rationale behind such a set is that the variation of CQI is often slow across sub-bands, and contiguous sub-bands often have similar CQIs. The position and width of a pulse identifies a fraction of bandwidth that has a more superior channel condition than the remaining bandwidth, which corresponds to one of the channel profiles shown in FIG. 8. Although FIG. 8 shows only negative pulses, positive pulses may also be used. Additional constraints, when necessary, may be applied to the pulse shape profile to restrict the number of pulses, the magnitude of each pulse or the width of the pulses.



For a larger number of CQIs, new sets of codebooks using extensions of previous codebooks may be designed. Additionally, existing codebooks for a smaller number of CQIs may be employed to design codebooks for a larger number of CQIs. For example, if there are codebooks for N CQIs and there is a requirement for 2N CQIs, the codebooks for N CQIs may be concatenated to provide codebooks for 2N CQIs. More specifically, if C.sub.1, C.sub.2.epsilon.C are two codewords for N CQIs, C=[C.sub.1 C.sub.2] can be a codeword for 2N CQIs.



Selective sub-band CQI compression affords another embodiment of the present disclosure. Instead of feeding back the CQIs on every sub-band, the frequency domain can be divided into several sub-bands with each sub-band consisting of a group of continuous N sub-bands, where N varies between one and the total number of sub-bands. The compression techniques embodied in this disclosure may also be applied to sub-bands.



The size of a sub-band may be adaptively configured by the system resource and channel profile to more closely reflect the frequency domain channel variation. For example, in a channel having a profile with less frequency dispersion and small delay, channel variation is small in the frequency domain. Therefore, a larger sub-band may be used. On the other hand, a more frequency dispersive channel typically necessitates a smaller sub-band to provide enough frequency domain CQI granularity. The CQI of a sub-band may be defined by averaging each CQI of the sub-bands included in the sub-band. Some examples of averaging algorithms are arithmetic averaging and exponential averaging.



Selective sub-band feedback refers to the mechanism of choosing a number of sub-bands and feeding back their CQIs. Sub-band selection criteria may be decided by either the Node B, the UE or both (e.g., round robin, the highest SINR, the highest single band throughput, etc.). The selection may be static, semi-static or instantaneous. Quantization of the selected sub-band CQIs may be performed independently or using quantization techniques addressed herein.



Sub-band selection may follow one or several of the following criteria. Select a fixed number of sub-bands, where the number may be configured by the Node B or the UE. Some exemplary principles for the sub-band selection include the sub-bands having the highest throughput, SINRs or other CQI metrics. Select a varying number of sub-bands where the sub-band number may be adaptively configured. For example, the sub-bands whose performance metric (e.g., SINR or throughput) is within a specified range of a certain performance reference (e.g., SINR, throughput of another one or subset of sub-bands) may be selected. Of course, other adaptive sub-band selection approaches may be employed.



Quantization of the CQIs of the selected sub-band may follow one or a combination of the following criteria. The absolute value of the CQI may be employed. Alternately, the average CQI of the selected sub-bands may be used. Here, averaging may be performed based on any function (e.g., arithmetic mean, geometric mean or exponential averaging). A differential value of the CQI with respect to a reference value may also be used. The reference value may be determined employing the CQIs of the selected sub-bands or using all sub-bands. For example, an average CQI of all sub-bands, an average CQI of the selected sub-bands or the CQI of neighboring sub-bands may be employed.



Optionally, a single average CQI for the unselected sub-bands may be employed. This average CQI may be calculated either with or without the selected sub-bands. This, however, may not be necessary if the average CQI across all sub-bands is used as a reference value. Of course, other CQI compression schemes employed on the CQIs of the unselected sub-bands may also be applied. As mentioned before, the term "all sub-bands" may refer to a set or subset of all the available sub-bands that are semi-statically configured by the Node B or network on higher layers (including the possibility of using all the sub-bands within the system bandwidth).



It should be noted that the above selective sub-band CQI compression is a special case of the codebook-based CQI compression. As an example, the codebook for the compressed CQI that comprises one wideband CQI (representative of all the sub-bands of interest), and a single CQI, which represents a subset of Q selected sub-bands (defined differentially relative to the wideband CQI) can be constructed as follows:



.times. ##EQU00025## Here, i represents a positive differential CQI value relative to the wideband CQI with M possible values. It is assumed that the CQI corresponding to the Q selected sub-bands is higher than the wideband CQI. The set C.sub.Q consists of Q (+1-valued) pulses which represents the positions of the selected sub-bands. Hence,



.function. ##EQU00026## where



.times. ##EQU00027## (the number of possible combinations in selecting Q out of N sub-bands (Q.ltoreq.N). Assuming that the wideband CQI is represented in four bits, the number of bits for the compressed CQI is:



.times..times..function. ##EQU00028## If the zero differential CQI value is included, the set in equation (15) can be modified as follows:



.times. ##EQU00029## Furthermore, if the negative differential CQI values are included, the set becomes as follows:



.times..times. ##EQU00030##



Principles of the present disclosure also apply to the case of multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) OFDMA systems, where the Node B and the UEs employ multiple antennas. Therefore, multiple spatial streams can be sent to a UE on a resource block. To support MIMO transmission, additional feedback from the UE may be required. In one exemplary embodiment, the UE determines the optimal transmission rank, (i.e., the number of spatial layers to be multiplexed) and the CQI for each stream on each sub-band. It is assumed that the transmission rank is the same on all sub-bands, thereby giving the same number of CQIs to be fed back per sub-band. Several approaches are presented to feed back CQIs for different spatial transmission streams. These are illustrated in FIGS. 9, 10 and 11.



FIG. 9 illustrates MIMO spatially independent CQI compression 900 for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. Here, the CQIs for different transmission streams are quantized independently. For each spatial transmission stream or codeword, any frequency-domain compression approach previously presented may be applied. The quantized outputs may or may not be jointly coded before feedback.



FIG. 10 illustrates MIMO spatially differential CQI compression 1000 for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. Again, the frequency-domain compression approaches previously presented may be applied to one transmission stream's CQI. Then, the difference between the chosen stream's CQI and the other stream's CQI is computed on each sub-band. The difference CQI (also known as differential CQI) is then compressed using the techniques discussed.



While it is clear that the spatial differential CQI corresponding to the mean or center sub-band requires fewer bits than the first-stream CQI, it is not clear if such reduction occurs for the other sub-bands (frequency-domain differential or non-center sub-bands). Hence, it is also possible to apply the spatial differential only to the center sub-band or the wideband (e.g., mean) CQI across sub-bands.



In the embodiment shown in FIG. 10, the difference is computed between the streams before compression. In yet another embodiment, the base stream may first be compressed and quantized and the difference of the other stream's CQI with respect to this quantized output may be selected for further compression and quantization.



FIG. 11 illustrates MIMO joint difference coding CQI compression 1100 for feed back to a base station constructed according to the principles of the present disclosure. This is an extension of the mean and differential CQI compression approach previously presented. Here, the mean is computed across all sub-bands and all streams. Then, for each (stream, sub-band) the difference with respect to the mean is fed back. This method is based on the fact that the spatial variation and the variation across frequencies are both small compared to the wideband CQI (e.g., mean), which is determined by the geometry of the UE.



FIG. 12 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of operating a feedback generator 1200 carried out according to the principles of the present disclosure. The method 1200 is for use in an OFDMA system and starts in a step 1205. Then, user equipment as employed in the OFDMA system is provided in a step 1210. A compressed channel quality indicator (CQI) for the user equipment corresponding to at least one sub-band is provided in a step 1215, where a sub-band is composed of one or more resource blocks.



In one embodiment, the compressed CQI corresponds to a predistorted CQI that provides a reduction in quantization error after restoration of the compressed CQI at a serving base station. Predistortion may be applied to other compression CQI approaches as an additional step in arriving at a compressed CQI. The compressed CQI may include a base CQI for a representative one of a set of sub-bands and a differential CQI relative to the base CQI for a remainder of the set of sub-bands. Alternately, the compressed CQI may correspond to a down-sampled CQI that provides a CQI value for each of a subset of sub-bands.



In one embodiment, the compressed CQI includes a wideband CQI that provides a single representative CQI for a set of sub-bands and a differential CQI relative to the wideband CQI for each of the sub-bands in the set. Alternatively, a single differential CQI relative to the wideband CQI may be provided for a selected subset of the set of sub-bands. Additionally, the compressed CQI may also include corresponding positions of the selected subset of sub-bands. The subset of sub-bands may correspond to a group of best CQI sub-bands chosen from the set of sub-bands.



The compressed CQI may correspond to a wavelet-based CQI that provides a wavelet based on orthogonalizing a basis vector for a mean and differential CQI. Alternatively, the compressed CQI may correspond to a hierarchical granularity refinement CQI that provides difference-based wavelet coefficients chosen in time for a recursively divided set of sub-bands.



In one embodiment, the compressed CQI may correspond to a codebook that consists of a plurality of CQI profiles across sub-bands. Additionally, the compressed CQI may correspond to an index for a codebook element that is closest to an actual differential CQI vector. Alternatively, the compressed CQI may correspond to a basis function representing at least one sub-band CQI selected from a set of sub-band CQIs for the transmission bandwidth.



The compressed CQI may correspond to each of a set of compressed CQIs for each sub-band that is determined independently for each of a plurality of spatial transmission streams. Additionally, the compressed CQI may correspond to a spatially differential CQI for each sub-band that is determined as a difference CQI between a referenced one of a plurality of spatial transmission streams and each remaining one of the plurality of spatial transmission streams. Alternatively, the compressed CQI may correspond to a joint difference CQI for each sub-band that is determined as a difference CQI between each of a plurality of spatial transmission streams and a wideband CQI across the plurality of spatial streams for a set of sub-bands. The compressed CQI is transmitted to a serving base station in a step 1220, and the method 1200 ends in a step 1225.



FIG. 13 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment of a method of operating a feedback decoder 1300 carried out according to the principles of the present disclosure. The method 1300 is for use in an OFDMA system and starts in a step 1305. Then, a base station as employed in the OFDMA system is provided in a step 1310. A compressed channel quality indicator (CQI) is received in the base station from user equipment corresponding to at least one sub-band, where the one sub-band is composed of at least one resource block, in a step 1215. A restored CQI from the compressed CQI is provided for the at least one sub-band in a step 1320. In one embodiment, the restored CQI may be derived from a predistorted CQI compression that provides a reduction in quantization error. Alternatively, the restored CQI may be derived from a wavelet-based CQI compression.



In one embodiment, the restored CQI is derived from a wideband CQI that provides a single representative CQI for a set of sub-bands and a differential CQI relative to the wideband CQI for each sub-band of the set of sub-bands. Alternatively, a single differential CQI relative to the wideband CQI may be provided for a selected subset of the set of sub-bands. Additionally, corresponding positions of the selected subset of sub-bands may be included. The selected subset of sub-bands may correspond to a group of best CQI sub-bands chosen from the set of sub-bands.



The restored CQI may be derived from a compressed CQI corresponding to a codebook that consists of a plurality of CQI profiles across sub-bands. Alternatively, the restored CQI may be derived from a selective sub-band CQI compression. Additionally, the restored CQI may be derived from a compressed CQI corresponding to a single transmission stream or a compressed CQI corresponding to a plurality of spatial transmission streams. The method 1300 ends in a step 1325.



While the methods disclosed herein have been described and shown with reference to particular steps performed in a particular order, it will be understood that these steps may be combined, subdivided, or reordered to form an equivalent method without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure. Accordingly, unless specifically indicated herein, the order or the grouping of the steps is not a limitation of the present disclosure.



Those skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates will appreciate that other and further additions, deletions, substitutions and modifications may be made to the described example embodiments without departing from the the disclosure.

PatentNumber=7983172,BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION



Description of the Related Art



Wireless communication networks have become increasingly popular and generally include a base station that provides service to a cell area located around the base station. Subscriber stations, including mobile stations (such as cell phones, etc.), are able to communicate with the base station when they are within the service area (such as the cell area) of the base station.



Interference among stations in the same or different cells of the network can cause significant problems. The use of relay stations in the network can complicate interference problems.



SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION



Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus which (a) measures interference levels occurring at one or more stations in a cluster of cells in a wireless network, where each of said one or more stations is a base station or a relay station; (b) maps the measured interference levels by building a first matrix including noise plus interference occurring at each of the one or more stations, respectively; (c) maps scheduled transmissions at predetermined times by each relay station respectively by building a second matrix; and (d) determines a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station by multiplying the first matrix by the second matrix at various points in time.



Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus which (a) measures interference levels occurring in one or more stations in an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) system, each station of said one or more stations being a base station or a relay station; (b) maps the measured interference levels by building a first matrix including noise plus interference occurring at each of the one or more stations, respectively; (c) maps scheduled transmissions at predetermined times by each relay station respectively by building a second matrix; and (d) determines a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station by multiplying the first matrix by the second matrix. Thereby, various embodiments of the present invention are capable of generating a network schedule, based on the determined noise plus interference impact.



The above embodiments of the present invention are simply examples, and all embodiments of the present invention are not limited to these examples or to including all the features described in the Summary of the Invention section of this application.



Additional features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows, and, in part, will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention.



BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS



FIG. 1 is an illustration of an example of a "honeycomb" cluster of cells in a wireless network topology involving base stations and relay stations operating in an OFDMA network under the IEEE 802.16 standard.



FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating the method of measuring interference levels occurring at one or more stations in a wireless network, mapping the interference levels and scheduled transmissions at relay stations by building first and second matrices and determining the noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station, according to embodiments of the present invention.



FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating the method of measuring interference levels, according to embodiments of the present invention.



FIG. 4 is an example of portions of UL interference sounding patterns transmitted from a plurality of relay stations operating in a cell within a cluster of cells.



FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating the method of defining another cluster of cells and repeating the measuring, mapping and determining procedures, according to embodiments of the present invention.



FIG. 6 is a diagram showing newly defined honeycomb clusters of cells in a wireless network topology so that all cells are subject to measuring, mapping and determining procedures, according to embodiments of the present invention.



DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS



Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the present invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.



In wireless communication networks, due to such effects as shadowing arising from blockage by buildings and other obstructions between transmission/reception antennas, there exist dead zones in which communication with the base station is not possible, despite being within the service area. To combat this problem, in a wireless network, such as for example, an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) network, relay stations can be employed for providing enhanced transmission capabilities by acting as intermediaries between mobile stations operating in the network and the base station. In this manner, a mobile station that is incapable of connecting directly to a base station within its cell service area may still connect indirectly to the base station by first communicating with a relay station that does have a direct link, or possibly an indirect link through additional relay stations, to the base station.



A problem arises, however, in that greater levels of interference are produced in the network with the addition of base and relay stations. Since the increased intranet interference degrades the carrier to interference-plus-noise ration (CINR) for the impacted links, properly scheduling the concurrent transmissions to mitigate the interference levels impacts directly the quality of service (QoS) on these links.



Therefore, a network entity schedule algorithm can be defined that minimizes the intranet interference between different stations (either base stations or relay stations) operating within the wireless network (e.g., an OFDMA network), thereby optimizing CINR degradation and thus allowing higher coding rates to be used on the impacted links.



FIG. 1 is an illustration of an example of a "honeycomb" cluster of cells 100 in a wireless network topology involving base stations and relay stations operating in an OFDMA network under the IEEE 802.16 standard. The cluster of cells 100 includes a plurality of relay stations (RS01-RS21) and a plurality of base stations (BS01-BS07) within the cluster of cells 100. This example topology is intended to show a single possibility of a network cell, and embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any particular topology. For example, embodiments of the present invention are not limited to a network with the specific number of base and/or relay stations in the specific configuration shown in FIG. 1, or a honeycomb cluster of cells, or to a honeycomb having the specific number of cells shown in FIG. 1.



In the specific example in FIG. 1, RS04 is shown transmitting a network interference mapping pattern (described in detail below) to all the base stations BS01-BS07, which is used for mapping interference levels occurring at various stations. Of course, the transmissions shown in FIG. 1 are merely illustrative examples and the present invention is not limited to which station or stations transmit and receive the network interference mapping pattern or any other transmission.



Various embodiments of the present invention assume a fixed reuse pattern. That is, the base stations and relay stations are assumed to be in fixed positions and each transmitter (either a base station or a relay station) transmits with a fixed power assigned by a network management entity (not depicted). However, the present invention is not limited to a fixed reuse pattern and it is also not limited to fixed relay stations.



FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating the method of measuring interference levels occurring at one or more stations in a wireless network, mapping the interference levels and scheduled transmissions at relay stations by building first and second matrices and determining the noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station, according to embodiments of the present invention. Referring now to FIG. 2, at operation 200, interference levels occurring at one or more stations in a wireless network are measured, where each of the stations is either a base station or a relay station. Details of operation 200 will be further provided with reference to FIG. 3 below.



Referring now to the interference level measuring operation 200 depicted in FIG. 3, at operation 300 a maintenance mode is scheduled for measuring the interference levels in the stations. The measuring interference mode is, for example, a maintenance type of operation, in which an implementation-specific network interference mapping pattern is transmitted from a station using, for example, a constant RF power.



Thus, from operation 300, the process moves to operation 310, in which the interference mapping pattern is transmitted from a station. As an example, each relay station within the cluster of cells subject to the interference measuring transmits within the same uplink (UL) frame, a specific UL interference pattern based, for example, on a specific UL sounding sequence. Upon receiving the UL interference patterns, all stations within the cluster of cells execute, for example, execute burst noise power measurements on the received UL interference patterns. Of course, the present invention is not limited to any particular UL interference pattern based on any specific UL sounding sequence, or to stations executing any particular burst noise power measurements.



One UL sounding burst may contain, for example, 18 subcarriers. Based on this value, the following maximum number of UL interference sounding patterns could be used per sector and cell, where the maximal number of UL interference sounding patterns represents the maximal number of relay stations the algorithm could monitor, and the Average Per Cell represents the average number of relay stations that could be monitored for a cluster of cells, employing, for example, a relay station UL relay zone of ten symbols, fully allocated for the interference measurement:



TABLE-US-00001 512 FFT 1024 FFT 2048 FFT Average Average Average Per Cell Total Per Cell Total Per Cell Total PUSC 6 45 15 90 30 180 (Partial Usage of Subchannels) AMC 2 .times. 3 7 48 16 96 34 192 (Adaptive Modulation and Coding)



One silence symbol, for example, may follow a one-symbol UL interference sounding pattern in order to allow non-synchronized power measurements (across different cells). Of course, the present invention is not limited to any particular measurements being included in the executed burst power measurements.



Referring to FIG. 4, as an example of portions of UL interference sounding patterns transmitted from a plurality of relay stations, RS k, RS k+1 and RS k+2 represent three different relay stations operating in a cell within a cluster of cells. It is noted that the present invention is not limited to any specific number of relay stations or base stations within a given cell or cluster of cells. At a specific point t.sub.0 , the relay stations begin transmitting respective UL interference sounding patterns at distinct frequencies. The sounding patterns are non-overlapping and, within a cluster of cells, each relay station will use a unique frequency band of 18 consecutive subcarriers, for example. In the example depicted in FIG. 4, each relay station is capable of transmitting in three frequency segments (a), (b) and (c). In this example, each relay station transmits a sounding pattern using a distinct frequency band within frequency segment (a). However, it is noted that the relay stations are not required to use the same frequency segment, and each station could transmit the sounding pattern in distinct frequency segments.



In this example, as shown by the pattern generated by RS k, one silence symbol 20 follows the one-symbol transmission 10 in order to allow non-synchronized power measurements across various cells in the cluster of cells due to propagation time. The present invention is not limited to any particular number of pairs of symbols 10 and silence symbols 20, and the number of pairs involved could be increased depending on the number of relay stations involved in the measurements. Further, the UL interference pattern described above is only one example, and one or ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that various sounding patterns and methods of transmitting the sounding patterns could be employed without departing from the principles of the present invention.



Referring back to FIG. 3, from operation 310, the process moves to operation 320 where the burst power of the transmitted mapping pattern is measured. For example, the burst power measurements executed by the stations are implementation specific and could include, for example, Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) measurements or, for example, Carrier to Interference Plus Noise Ration (CINR) measurements. These burst power measurements are, for example, proportional with the interference path between stations sending and receiving the UL interference patterns. It is noted that measuring burst powers may occur at one or more base stations or one or more super-ordinated relay stations.



From operation 320, the process moves to operation 330 where the network management entity determines interference levels occurring at each station based on the measured burst powers. According to various embodiments of the present invention, the network interference mapping pattern is scheduled, for example, periodically by the network management entity. Each base station then, for example, averages the received burst power measurements from each station and transmits the averaged measurements to network management entity to generate the interference matrix. However, the present invention is not limited to periodic scheduling of network interference mapping, or to any particular types of calculations.



Referring back to FIG. 2, from operation 200, the process moves to operation 210, where the measured interference levels are mapped by building a first matrix including noise plus interference occurring at each of the one or more stations.



For example, a network management entity (not shown) produces a mapped interference matrix based, for example, on noise plus interference measurements performed by different stations positioned within a cluster of cells subject to the interference mapping. That is, the interference matrix includes the noise plus interference generated by each station upon each other station.



An example interference matrix (INT) shown below maps the noise plus interference caused by each station upon each other station in the wireless network. As shown in this example, NI.sub.ij represents the noise (N) plus interference (I) caused by station "i" upon station "j". The effect is not necessarily symmetrical due to the potential different transmission powers of the stations, although it is assumed that each transmitter transmits with a fixed power. This example shows a square Y.times.Y matrix, but the matrix could also be an Y.times.M matrix.



##EQU00001##



The present invention is not limited to this specific manner of mapping the interference levels, and other manners of mapping the interference levels can be implemented. More specifically, the present invention is not limited to the mapping the interference levels by estimation of the interference matrix as described above.



From operation 210, the process moves to operation 220, where scheduled transmissions at predetermined times by each relay station respectively are mapped by building a second matrix. The predetermined times may be determined, for example, by a network management entity.



The second matrix RS(t) includes the relay station scheduled transmissions denoted by RS.sub.a,b at different points in time, where a is the relay station number and b is the time at which the interference takes place. An example of matrix RS(t) is shown below:



.function..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00002##



This example shows a square Y.times.Y matrix, but the matrix could also be an Y.times.M matrix. Further, the present invention is not limited to this specific manner of mapping the relay stations, and other manners of mapping can be implemented within the scope of the present invention.



From operation 220, the process moves to operation 230 where the first and second matrix are multiplied in order to determine a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station at different points in time.



To compute the effect of all relay stations on a given base station at a given time t, the following equation is performed, where SCH(t) represents the CINR degradation by the relay stations located in the same cluster of cells upon existing base stations within the same cluster:



.function..function..times..times. ##EQU00003## .function..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.- .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003.2##



FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating the method of defining another cluster of cells and repeating the measuring, mapping and determining procedures, according to embodiments of the present invention. Referring now to FIG. 5, at operation 400 another cluster of cells within the wireless network is defined. Measuring interference levels only within the original cluster of cells, for example a tier 1 cluster of cells, may not be sufficient to properly map all the interference interactions between all stations within the network. That is, interference interactions may appear between the original tier 1 cluster of cells under analysis at a given moment and a tier 2 cluster of cells affecting interference levels at the stations within the tier 1 cluster of cells.



From operation 400, the process moves to operation 410, where the measuring, mapping by building a first matrix, mapping by building a second matrix and determining operations (see FIG. 2) are repeated for stations within the tier 2 cluster of cells. As a result, measuring, mapping a determining procedures may be completed for the tier 1+2 cluster of cells.



Of course, the process in FIG. 5 is only one example of a process measure and map interference levels at all stations in all clusters within a wireless network. The present invention is not limited to the specific example in FIG. 5. For example, the present invention is not limited to including each of the specific operations in FIG. 5. Moreover, there are many variations of the specific operations in FIG. 5 that can be implemented.



After a given period of time determined, for example, by the network management entity, new tier 1 and tier 2 groups of cells may be defined. For example, FIG. 6 is a diagram showing newly defined honeycomb clusters of cells in a wireless network topology so that all cells are subject to measuring, mapping and determining procedures, according to embodiments of the present invention. This example topology is intended to show a single possibility of clusters of network cells (i.e., honeycomb clusters), and embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any particular topology.



Referring now to FIG. 6, reference numerals 500(a)-500(f) show all the cells in the wireless network with the shaded cluster as the cluster subject to the measuring, mapping and determining procedures at a given time. As shown in the example of FIG. 6, a tier 1 cluster is defined at 500(a) and new clusters are defined sequentially, as shown in 500(b) -500(f). As shown in this example, some cells in a shaded cluster are included in the shaded proceeding and/or succeeding cluster, so that the noise plus function impact upon each station in a cluster by one or more stations in another cluster may be measured.



According to this example, all of the clusters of cells may be efficiently mapped in six frames. Considering, as an example, a frame duration of 5 ms, the total allocated time for a complete tier 1+2 interference mapping would be 30 ms. Of course, the present invention is not limited to a specific frame duration, and the total time could be allocated in six sequential frames or in six separate frames (non-contiguous in time), depending on network congestion. In other words, the measurements could be scheduled by the network management entity periodically during less congested time frames of the network. In addition, because one mapping procedure may not be accurate enough, the measurements may be repeated and averaged over a predetermined time determined by the network management entity, for example.



As a further example, the total interference mapping capacity (expressed in total number of mapped relay stations) of the foregoing algorithm within 30 ms is given by the following table:



TABLE-US-00002 512 FFT 1024 FFT 2048 FFT PUSC 270 540 1080 AMC 2 .times. 3 288 576 1152



As a result of determining a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station, the network management entity generates a network schedule in real time such that the interference between entities (either base stations or relay stations) is mitigated. The bandwidth can be efficiently allocated using, for example, the reuse pattern by assigning resources to individual reuse sets including a maximum number of base stations and relay stations, while, for example, maintaining a cumulative transmission level below the predetermined threshold interference level



An example of using interference impacts to schedule transmissions can be found in Provisional Application titled "REUSE PATTERN NETWORK SCHEDULING ALGORITHM FOR OFDMA NETWORKS USING RELAY STATIONS", U.S. Ser. No. 60/864,498, filed Nov. 6, 2006, inventors Chenxi Zhu, Dorin Viorel, Jagan Seshadri, Jonathan Agre and Wei-Peng Chen, and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and U.S. Utility Application titled "REUSE PATTERN NETWORK SCHEDULING USING INTERFERENCE LEVELS", U.S. Ser. No. 11/777,385, filed Jul. 13, 2007, inventors Chenxi Zhu, Dorin Viorel, Jagan Seshadri, Jonathan Agre and Wei-Peng Chen, and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. However, the present invention is not limited to the methods of generating network schedules described by the aforementioned provisional and utility applications.



Another example of can be found in Provisional Application titled "LOAD-BASED MMR NETWORK SCHEDULING ALGORITHM WITH FREQUENCY REUSE", U.S. Ser. No. 60/884,464, filed Jan. 11, 2007, inventors Chenxi Zhu, Dorin Viorel, Jagan Seshadri, Jonathan Agre and Wei-Peng Chen, and which is incorporated herein by reference, and Non-Provisional Application titled "REUSE PATTERN NETWORK SCHEDULING USING LOAD LEVELS", U.S. Ser. No. 11/777,494, filed Jul. 13, 2007, inventors Chenxi Zhu, Dorin Viorel, Jagan Seshadri, Jonathan Agre and Wei-Peng Chen, and which is incorporated herein by reference. However, the present invention is not limited to the methods of generating network schedules described by the aforementioned provisional and utility applications.



Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus which (a) measures interference levels occurring at one or more stations in a cluster of cells in a wireless network, where each of said one or more stations is a base station or a relay station; (b) maps the measured interference levels by building a first matrix including noise plus interference occurring at each of the one or more stations, respectively; (c) maps scheduled transmissions at predetermined times by each relay station respectively by building a second matrix; and (d) determines a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station by multiplying the first matrix by the second matrix at various points in time.



Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus which (a) measures interference levels occurring in one or more stations in an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.16 system, each station of said one or more stations being a base station or a relay station; (b) maps the measured interference levels by building a first matrix including noise plus interference occurring at each of the one or more stations, respectively; (c) maps scheduled transmissions at predetermined times by each relay station respectively by building a second matrix; and (d) determines a noise plus interference impact upon each base station by each relay station by multiplying the first matrix by the second matrix. Thereby, various embodiments of the present invention are capable of generating a network schedule, based on the determined noise plus interference impact.



Various embodiments of the present invention are capable of (a) scheduling a maintenance mode; (b) transmitting, from one or more stations, respective network interference mapping patterns; (c) measuring a burst power of each of the transmitted mapping patterns, respectively, upon receiving the transmitted mapping patterns; and (d) determining an interference level occurring at each of the one or more stations transmitting a mapping pattern based on the measured burst power transmitted by the respective station.



Various embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus which (a) defines another cluster of cells; and (b) repeats the measuring, mapping by building a first matrix, mapping building a second matrix, and determining for one or more stations in the other cluster of cells, where one or more new clusters of cells are defined after predetermined periods of time, and the measuring, mapping by building a first matrix, mapping building a second matrix, and determining are repeated for one or more stations in the one or more new clusters of cells until interference levels occurring at all stations in all cells in the wireless network are measured.



Various embodiments of the present invention are applicable to IEEE 802.16 networks, which includes amendments or extensions to IEEE 802.16. However, the present invention is not limited to IEEE 802.16 networks, and is applicable to other types of networks. The IEEE 802.16 standard, including amendments and extensions, is incorporated herein by reference.



Similarly, various embodiments of the present invention are applicable to OFDMA networks. However, the present invention is not limited to OFDMA networks, and is applicable to other types of networks.



Various embodiments of the present invention are described herein with respect to "mobile" stations that communicate with base stations and relay stations in a network. However, the present invention is not limited to networks with "mobile" stations. Instead, a network might have many different types of stations, typically referred to as "subscriber" stations, which communicate with base and/or relay stations. A "mobile" station is one type of "subscriber" station.



According to embodiments of the present invention, the above described methods, apparatuses and systems can, for example, mitigate the intranet interference between different stations (either base stations or relay stations) operating within the wireless network (e.g., an OFDMA network), thereby optimizing CINR degradation and thus allowing higher coding rates to be used on the impacted links, and cause a related improvement on the spectral efficiency per link, considering the improvement in the related bandwidth efficiency.



Although a few preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described, it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention, the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents.

